Abdel Majed Abdel Bary, a 23-year-old London hip-hop artist, has emerged as one of the main suspects in the investigation into the beheading of journalist James Foley, London's Sunday Times quoted counterterrorism officials.

Counterterrorism police and MI5 believe Bary is the person who appears in the video posted by ISIS, also known as the Islamic State, that shows the beheading of Foley last week.

"The MI5 investigation into the man behind James Foley's murder is ongoing but they have managed to identify the masked British jihadist who can be seen in the video holding a knife to his throat," the Sunday Times quoted a police source as saying.

Fox News reported that a "senior Western intelligence official" also confirmed that Bary is believed to be Foley's murderer, but U.S. intelligence officials are declining to comment.

Fox News said Bary's father was extradited from Great Britain to the U.S. in 2012 because of his connection with Osama bin Laden and the bombing of the U.S. Embassy bombings in Africa in 1998. A source told Fox that the younger Bary went to Syria in 2013 to fight on the side of ISIS.

The Mirror reported that Bary was performing hip-hop music under the name L Jinny before leaving his parent's home to fight in Syria. Friends of Bary told the Mirror that the performer was radicalized from the teachings of preacher Anjem Choudary.

"He had the talent," one of his friends told the Mirror. "He could have been as big as Dizzee Rascal. He was doing music with huge names in the underground scene. People have got into his head. It's transformed a talented young guy into a vengeful extremist."

The Mirror reported that Abu Hussain Al-Britani, 20, a computer hacker from Birmingham, and Abu Abdullah al-Britani, 23, from Portsmouth, are also being investigated.

A source told the Mirror that a team of soldiers are on the ground in Iraq and Syria looking to catch Foley's killer within the next few days. The source also said that British intelligence services believe it has a good beat on the identity of the British-born "Jihadi John" and manhunt efforts will turn him up.