It is one of the most annoying aspects of modern air travel - kicking off shoes and removing belts to get through security without setting off the scanner.

One frustrated traveller clearly decided the only answer was to strip off altogether, much to the surprise of security guards.

The incident at Pulkovo Airport, in St Petersburg, Russia, saw the man strip his clothes off in a nonchalant manner before strolling through the metal detector watch by bemused airport workers.

Two guards can be seen chatting and looking on as the man bends down to remove his shoes and then starts to remove his belt.

Suddenly the man, who some sources believe may be an IT department worker at the airport, takes off his trousers altogether an places them in the tray with the rest of his belongings.

One security worker can be seen nudging his colleague and pointing to the man, but neither appears to know what to do next.

At first all seems as normal as the man bends down to remove his shoes - a common request by security when passing through metal detectors at airports

Suddenly the man surprises staff by removing his trousers altogether and placing them in a tray

As startled workers look on, seemingly unsure what to do, the man continues stripping off

Unbothered by the attention, the man moves onto his top half and whips off his jumper, leaving him completely naked.

But he still takes a moment to remove the all-important wrist watch - the one thing that actually could set off the scanner - before strutting through the metal detecting arch.

Staff stand back and appear to let him just walk through the metal detectors. The cheeky man even jokingly hesitate by the workers as if to check they don't want to search him further.

Completely unbothered by the attention, the man then strolls through the security gate, even pausing by security staff as if to ask if he needs to be searched further

The first thing the man puts back on is his wrist watch as he gathers his clothing up at the end of the conveyor belt

Then, as if there is nothing unusual about the situation, the man picks up his clothes - places his wrist watch back on first, then proceeds to walk off.

St Petersburg police are said to be investigating the incident.

Passengers at airports around the world have long complained of 'invasive' searches at security points, with American passengers in particular complaining about the methods of the Transport Security Administration (TSA).

And instead of hurriedly getting changed, the man simply bundles up his clothes and walks off

It seems this gentleman isn't the first to stage a naked protest either.

In 2013, Lady Kelly Hadfield-Hyde, 51, and Ann Chadwick, 48, stripped off at Manchester Airport security after sharing a bottle of wine.

The two were later sentenced for public order offences.