Islamic State leaders in Syria and Iraq are training their fighters to fly captured fighter jets in the hope of establishing an air force, it has been claimed.

The terror group are understood to have been carrying out test flights the captured al-Jarrah military airport east of Aleppo, according to a British-based organisation monitoring the Syrian Civil War.

Having captured three fighter jets from the Syrian military, ISIS are using Iraqi pilots who were once officers in Saddam Hussein's air force to train Syria-based militants to operate the warplanes.

The news comes as Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula sought to mend its strained relations with ISIS, urging all jihadist groups operating in the Middle East to unite under the common cause of fighting against Western 'crusader' armies.

Fighter: It is not clear if ISIS' jets are equipped with weaponry nor if the pilots are able to fly long distances, but witnesses said the planes appear to have been seized from the Syrian Air Force (pictured)

Power: ISIS has been steadily building a full-equipped military - including large tanks, such as the one pictured here in Raqqa). Much of the equipment in their possession has been seized from Syrian regime forces

Show of strength: ISIS militants take part in a military parade along the streets of Raqqa earlier this year

ISIS' alleged test flights over the Aleppo countryside are understood to be the first time the terror group - which seized control of vast swathes of Syria and Iraq earlier this year - has taken to the air.

'They have trainers, Iraqi officers who were pilots before for Saddam Hussein,' said Rami Abdulrahman, who runs the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

'People saw the flights, they went up many times from the airport and they are flying in the skies outside the airport and coming back,' he said, citing witnesses near al-Jarrah military airport.

The airport, which was seized from the Syrian regime earlier this year, is approximately 45 miles from the Turkish border.

It is not clear if the jets are equipped with weaponry nor if the pilots are able to fly long distances, but witnesses said the planes appear to be Soviet-built MiG 21 or MiG 23 models.

Leader: News of ISIS' test flights comes as Al Qaeda - which has previously condemned ISIS for being too brutal - ostensibly sought to repair ties with the group led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi (pictured)

Declaration: Titled 'Statement on the Crusader Coalition', the document is Al Qaeda's strongest show of support for ISIS since leader Ayman al-Zawahiri denounced the group for the brutal tactics late last year

Islamic State militants have been almost entirely driven out of the Syrian city of Kobane following a remarkable fightback by Kurdish forces who vowed to either defeat the terrorists or die trying.

The extremists have abandoned all of their positions in the city, except for two small pockets of resistance in the east of the city, Kurdish commander Baharin Kandal said.

As recently as Monday it looked as if the fall of Kobane was imminent.

The massively outgunned Kurdish fighters had been pushed back ever closer to the city centre by ISIS militants advancing into the suburbs, leaving hundreds of mainly elderly residents facing rape and massacre.

But with the help of the most intense U.S. and Arab bombing raids of the anti-ISIS campaign so far, the Kurdish forces have been able to kill hundreds of militants over the past two days.

They have also managed to force the militants have not been killed to retreat further into the outskirts of the town.

News that ISIS have been almost entirely forced out of Kobane comes after two days of heavy air strikes by U.S. warplanes.

ISIS' alleged test flights come despite American and Arab warplanes carrying out dozens of bombing raids against the group in Syria.

The terrorists have regularly used weaponry captured from the Syrian and Iraqi armies and have overrun several military bases but this was the first time it had been able to pilot warplanes.

Pro-Islamic State Twitter accounts had previously posted pictures of captured jets in other parts of Syria, but the aircraft had appeared unusable, according to analysts and diplomats.

News of the test flights comes as Al Qaeda - which has previously condemned ISIS for being too brutal - ostensibly sought to repair ties with Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's group.

In a statement released today, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula - the notorious terror collective's Yemen-based franchise - urged jihadists throughout the Middle East to put their differences aside, according to Charlie Winter, a researcher on jihad at counter-terrorism think-tank Quilliam

The document is understood to have called for Al Qaeda - who are represented in Syria by the Nusra Front and Khorasan terror groups - to stop fighting with ISIS, adding that the militants should instead focus on attacking Western 'crusader' forces and carrying out strikes on American targets.

Titled 'Statement on the Crusader Coalition', the document is Al Qaeda's strongest show of support for ISIS since leader Ayman al-Zawahiri denounced the group for the brutal tactics late last year.

Advance: The Islamic State and its allied Sunni militants seized the Anbar city of Fallujah, parts of Ramadi and large rural areas of Anbar early this year

Checkpoint: Earlier today, Iraqi officials in the western Anbar province said a curfew has been imposed in the provincial capital Ramadi (pictured) over fears that the Islamic State group might try to advance on the city

Security: ISIS has been making gains around Ramadi in recent weeks against the embattled Iraqi military, despite ongoing U.S.-led coalition airstrikes on the militants

'We urge all Muslims to back their brethren, with their souls, money and tongues, against the crusaders,' the Al Qaeda statement reads.

It also urges Muslims to support 'whoever can weaken the Americans to weaken them militarily, economically, and media-wise.'

Earlier today, Iraqi officials in the western Anbar province said a curfew has been imposed in the provincial capital Ramadi over fears that the Islamic State group might try to advance on the city.

Sabah Karhout, the chairman of the Anbar provincial council, says the curfew began at midnight this morning as part of an effort to limit movement in and out of the city.

ISIS has been making gains around Ramadi in recent weeks against the embattled Iraqi military, despite ongoing U.S.-led coalition airstrikes on the militants.

Two Iraqi military officials, speaking anonymously because they are not authorized to brief the media, say major operations are underway in Salahuddin province to retake key areas from the Sunni militants around Tikrit and the Beiji oil refinery.

ISIS and allied Sunni militants seized the Anbar city of Fallujah, parts of Ramadi and large rural areas of Anbar early this year.

The loss of Fallujah - where American troops engaged in some of the heaviest fighting of the more than eight-year U.S.-led war in the country - foreshadowed the later loss of Iraq's second city of Mosul and much of the north.

Six senior figures in the Pakistani Taliban have pledged allegiance to the Islamic State and its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi in a symbol of the terrorists' expanding influence among Islamist groups.

Withdrawing their loyalty to the Afghan Taliban's leader Mohammad Omar, the men - made up of the group's chief spokesman Shahidullah Shahid and five regional commanders - said they will remain members of the Pakistani Taliban, but added they now consider themselves affiliates of ISIS.

The move is likely to have serious consequences for security in Pakistan, particularly near the Afghan border where all six of the men are based, leaving it open to the kind of violence and brutal oppression ISIS has employed in the vast swathes of Syria and Iraq under the group's control.

Militants: Withdrawing their loyalty to the Afghan Taliban's leader Mohammad Omar, the men - made up of the group's chief spokesman Shahidullah Shahid (centre) and five regional commanders - said they will remain members of the Pakistani Taliban, but added they now consider themselves affiliates of ISIS

The official announcement of the six men's declaration of allegiance to ISIS came in the form of an audio recording that emerged on Wednesday. However rumours had been circulating for weeks that several senior figures in the Pakistani Taliban were set to declare their loyalty to al-Baghdadi.

'I show allegiance to the commander of faithful, Caliph Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Qureshi al Hussaini, and will listen and obey every order of you and will follow your orders regardless of what circumstances may be,' Shahid said in the recording.

There is now concern that other senior figures in the Pakistani Taliban may defect to ISIS, including the group's overall leader Maulana Fazlullah, who has previously voiced support for the terror group.

Despite several members having declared their ISIS sympathies, the announcement is the first time any senior figure within the Pakistani Taliban has actually sworn allegiance to al-Baghdadi.