Dylan Thomas, who has been given the nickname 'Spider-Man' by friends, admits that it was a 'bizarre experience' and he felt 'violated'

VIEW GALLERY

A holidaymaker was left horrified after discovering a tropical spider had burrowed underneath his skin during a trip to Bali.

The 21-year-old Aussie was abroad with friends when he discovered the strange red trail stretching two inches across his stomach.

Dylan Thomas was told by doctors at the Bali International Medical Centre that he was suffering from an allergic reaction to an insect bite and was sent away with some antihistamine cream.

But three days later, when the red mark began to blister, and almost double in length, Dylan knew there was something wrong.

Facebook / Dylan Thomas   Sore: When the red line began to blister Dylan knew something was really wrong

After going back to the medical centre to see a dermatologist, health professionals were shocked to discover that a tropical spider was burrowing just below the surface of his skin.

Doctors managed to extract the spider from Dylan's abdomen and revealed that the insect had buried itself into the scar from his recent appendix removal.

"It was a bit bigger than the size of a match head," said Dylan about the creature.

And the young holiday maker as now earned himself the new nickname Spider-man.

10 common spiders found in British homes

"It takes a lot to deter me, but I do feel violated. It was a very bizarre experience just to know something like that was in my body for a couple of days," Dylan told Australian newspaper NT News.

The spider has now been sent away for testing and Dylan will be informed in the next week about the kind of spider that lived beneath his skin for three days.

Is this the worst case of head lice ever? Video shows girl infested with HUNDREDS of nits.

Meanwhile, the UK is facing an insect invasion of its own. Check out our pick of the worst spider images sent in by our Mirror readers in the video below.

Poll loading …

Video loading