Pope Francis has given hope to gays, unmarried couples and advocates of the Big Bang theory. Now, he has endeared himself to dog lovers, animal-rights activists and vegans.
Trying to console a distraught young boy whose dog had died, Francis told him in a recent public appearance on St. Peter’s Square that “paradise is open to all of God’s creatures.”
While it is unclear whether the pope’s remarks helped soothe the child, they were welcomed by groups such as the Humane Society and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, which saw them as a repudiation of conservative Catholic theology that says animals cannot go to heaven because they have no souls.
“My inbox got flooded,” said Christine Gutleben, senior director of faith outreach at the Humane Society, the largest animal protection group in the United States.
Charles Camosy, an author and a professor of Christian ethics at Fordham University, said it was difficult to know precisely what Francis meant, since he spoke “in pastoral language that is not really meant to be dissected by academics.”
But asked if the remarks had caused a new debate on whether animals have souls, suffer and go to heaven, Camosy said, “In a word: Absolutely.”
To some extent, it was not a surprise that Francis, an Argentine Jesuit who took his papal name from St. Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of animals, would suggest to a saddened child that his lost pet had a place in the afterlife.
Theologians cautioned that Francis had spoken casually, not made a doctrinal statement.
The Rev. James Martin, a Jesuit priest and editor at large of America, the Catholic magazine, said he believed that Francis was at least asserting that “God loves and Christ redeems all of creation,” even though conservative theologians have said paradise is not for animals.
The question of whether animals go to heaven has been emotionally debated for much of the church’s history. Pope Pius IX, who led the church from 1846 to 1878, strongly supported the doctrine that dogs and other animals have no consciousness.
Laura Hobgood-Oster, professor of religion and environmental studies at Southwestern University in Georgetown, Texas, said: “Historically, the Catholic Church has never been clear on this question; it’s all over the place, because it begs so many other questions. Where do mosquitoes go, for God’s sake?”