SAN SEVERINO - Go to the hospital accusing a terrible stomach ache and comes out clutching their arms a pretty baby. It would just be a story with a happy ending, a birth like many, one that comes from the lanes of the department of obstetrics and gynecology of "Bartolomeo Eustachio" San Severino Marche were it not for the fact that the protagonist of the race to the hospital this time it was a new mother any but a nun who had sworn, years ago, chastity to the Lord with eternal fidelity.
She had arrived at the hospital, accompanied by her sisters, from the emergency room. Exactly complained of stomach pains but ultrasound has revealed the mystery and the doctor on duty invited nun and sisters to immediately take the road of the department of obstetrics not without a moment of embarrassment. Amniotic sac broke and team immediately into action to deliver the nun. In the story, of course, little is known about the same even if it took him nothing to go around the country and come out not only dall'ovattato silence ensured by medical and nursing staff who witnessed the happy event but also from that, more religious in this case, the convent which would seem to be even a cloistered monastery in the area (in San Severino there are two, the monastery of St. Catherine and the St. Clare, both in the area of Catsello). Nothing leaked, of course, on the identity of religious, nor on physical features of the infant. Mystery over whether resembles more the mother rather than the father. And if you do not ask to be born was a boy or a girl as in lane embarrassments are palpable. We only know that the mother of the unborn child, the original of a state in South America, would arrive in Macerata for some time and would find accommodation, perhaps refuge in a cloistered in our province. It is also hard to say whether the sister has or less confessed his sin, not venial, to his superior. We know, however, that the religious would come first to the emergency room, and later would bring up the ward, accompanied by other sisters who, even before a miracle, they entrusted the prayer of the Lord who in the meantime was to come to light. The entrance to the acceptance took place Sunday and was, however, a great day of celebration for the arrival of a new life. So, really embarrassed general, were followed by the team that performed the childbirth exciting phases that accompanied the same. No flowers at the entrance of the bedroom which these days has ensured the anonymity that the new mother , however, seems to have decided to keep the small and that maybe now will be transferred elsewhere, probably in a family home. Certainly before Sunday the nun would not be left unattended, this is what I would tell her that the religious have shared cloistered in recent months. And certainly in the structure that housed it, the nun could hardly have had contact with the outside world. Although the ways of the Lord, you know, are really endless. Not surprised, months ago, the news of the birth of another sister, this time the Congolese. The child came to light was first given to a pair of Tolentino and then taken to the adoptive parents with an unexpected and unexpected measure of the Supreme Court finally entrusted to a halfway house. In that case the natural mother had abandoned the little girl, at birth . The child for two and a half years had been grown by two new parents that if the view were then subtract.