A hallucinogenic fungi has been found growing in the Queen’s garden at Buckingham Palace after being discovered by gardening expert Alan Titchmarsh.

The television presenter unearthed the fungi at Buckingham Palace for an ITV gardening show called The Queen’s Garden, and said: “I won’t be eating any of that.”

Titchmarsh came across the red and white spotted toadstool — called Amanita muscaria, or fly agaric — on a tour of the private 40-acre plot with ecology expert Professor Mick Crawley.

Titchmarsh, 65, asks in an ITV show to be screened on Christmas Day: “Is it edible?”

Professor Crawley replies: “That depends what you mean. It’s eaten in some cultures for its hallucinogenic affects. But it also makes people who eat it very sick.

“The old-fashioned thing to do was to feed it to the village idiot, then drink his urine because you get all of the high without any of the sickness.”

Titchmarsh jokingly replies: “I think I’ll forgo that and stick to normal mushrooms.”

Then he adds: “Not something to try at home.”

Later he told The Sun newspaper: “That was a surprise but it shows just how varied the species are. I won’t be eating any of that, though, no. My idea of hard drugs is Nurofen.”

On the new TV show, Titchmarsh explains that gardeners actively encourage mushrooms and toadstools.

He says: “Every time they chop something down, they leave out the wood to rot.”

Magic mushroom is a slang term for any hallucinogenic fungus.

The most common, illegal form contains drug psilocybin, but there is no suggestion this grows in the Palace garden.

Last night a Palace spokesman told the Sun: “For the avoidance of doubt, fungi from the garden are not used in the Palace kitchens.”

The new programme will show viewers an entire year in the life of the Buckingham Palace garden, from the summer garden parties to the nocturnal wanderings of wildlife in the heart of London.

It will demonstrate how gardeners work tirelessly to maintain the Queen’s flowers, while bearing in mind her wish to see animals and insects made welcome in the gardens, swapping pesticides for homemade garlic treatments.

Titchmarsh will explore how bee hives, homes for insects and deposits from the Royal mews each help cultivate the gardens of Buckingham Palace, with top tips from gardeners giving insight into the Queen’s own tastes.

The programme, to be broadcast by ITV on Christmas Day, will also show how the garden has been used by the royal family for generations, from the king who planted mulberry trees to rival the French to the young Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret climbing to peer over the high garden walls.

A sandpit used by the royal children will be filmed, along with oak trees planted decades ago by the young Prince of Wales and Princess Royal, grown from acorns sown on the event of their birth.

Titchmarsh, who spent 12 months exploring how the Palace garden changed with the seasons, will be seen finishing the calendar year with a Christmas tree mounted in the Marble Hall, decorated with holly and mistletoe from the royal garden and festooned with festive golden crowns.