• Jihadi John named by Washington Post as Mohammed Emwazi • Islamic State terrorist lived in London • He studied computer science at Westminster University • Has appeared in several Isil murder videos

Latest

12.29 The Telegraph's Richard Spencer reports:

The BBC tweeted a court document from a case involving another suspected militant and the Home Secretary, Theresa May, in which Emwazi is named as an associate. Its home affairs correspondent, Dominic Casciani, says that another "core member" of this same group of West London jihadis, Bilal Berjawi, was subsequently killed in a drone strike in Somalia.

Jihadi John: Here's one of the court documents that includes Emwazi, the man known to be the ISIS militant: pic.twitter.com/U2h8WqbcCC— Dominic Casciani (@BBCDomC) February 26, 2015

Jihadi John: Here's one of the court documents that includes Emwazi, the man known to be the ISIS militant: pic.twitter.com/U2h8WqbcCC

Abdel-Majed Abdel-Bary

12.14 The telegraph's Richard Spencer reports:

Identification of Mohammed Emwazi as "Jihadi John" means it is not the British-born rapper, Abdel-Majid Abdel Bary, who was once suspected of being the killer-propagandist.

Abdel Bary's route to radicalisation was easily traced, in the lyrics of the songs he performed as L Jinny, as he became disillusioned with a drug-fuelled lifestyle on London's streets.

His father, Adel Abdel Bary, was one of Britain's best-known jihadist sympathisers, who came to London in exile from his native Egypt. He spent 13 years in jail awaiting extradition to the United States, where he was accused of links to the 1998 embassy bombings by al-Qaeda, and where he made a plea bargain and was sentenced to 25 years in jail this month.

Abdel Bary's role as a jihadist in Syria is not in doubt, however - he tweeted a picture of himself holding the severed head of a prisoner in Raqqa, Syria, saying: "Chillin' with my homie or what's left of him".

12.09 The Telegraph's Matthew Holehouse reports:

Downing Street has indicated frustration at the naming of Jihadi John, saying the release of names can undermine investigations.

The Prime Minister's Deputy Official Spokesman declined to comment directly on the matter, saying No 10 never comments national security issues.

But she said: "The Prime Minister would be concerned about information being put into the public domain at any time that might jeopardise ongoing police or security investigation, or indeed the safety of British citizens."

Asked if the naming had undermined the current investigation, she said: "We are not going to go into the details, but there is an ongoing investigation. It is absolutely right that we allow the police and security agencies to do all they can to bring those responsible to justice and keep British people safe."

"We are absolutely determined to bring the perpetrators to justice, and the police and security agencies are working hard to do that."

12.07 The Telegraph's Ben Farmer reports from maida Vale;

A neighbour at the Levee House address said the family consisted of four children and two parents and they'd lived there for around four years. The father used to be a minicab driver.

The eldest son, in his 20s, has not been seen for several years.

The family are Arab and described as. "Nice and normal".

The women wear hijab (not niqab) and the men wear western dress.

Police knocked the family address this morning looking for them.

According to his own email, Jihadi John wrote he was 20 when he went to Tanzania in May 2009. That puts him at about 26 years old.— Adam Goldman (@adamgoldmanwp) February 26, 2015

According to his own email, Jihadi John wrote he was 20 when he went to Tanzania in May 2009. That puts him at about 26 years old.

12.03 Emwazi's family is thought to live in Maida Vale.

A nearby neighbour told The Telegraph's Camilla Turner:

This is a very quiet area, nothing out of the ordinary usually happens. I am surprised, I never expected this. They seem like a nice, normal family.

She said she had not seen Emwzi "for a while". The Washington Post reports that Emwazi first went to Syria in 2012.

12.01 Adam Goldman, the Washington Post, journalist who broke the story tweets:

Jihadi John felt like he was in "cage" in London. http://t.co/uEXEZXDbMj— Adam Goldman (@adamgoldmanwp) February 26, 2015

Jihadi John felt like he was in "cage" in London. http://t.co/uEXEZXDbMj

11.58 The name John came from hostages who had been released. Emwzi and other Britons were nicknamed the Beatles - another was dubbed George.

James Foley

11.44 Emwazi first appeared in a video of the murder of American journalist James Foley in August, dressed in black with only his eyes visible.

He reappeared in videos of the beheadings of US journalist Steven Sotloff, British aid worker David Haines, American aid worker Peter Kassig and British charity worker Alan Henning.

Last month, the militant appeared in a video with the Japanese hostages Haruna Yukawa and Kenji Goto, shortly before they were killed.

11.39 Telegraph report from 2011 on fears that Westminster University had been infiltrated by Islamist extremists:

Westminster University elected Tarik Mahri, 23, to the job of president of the union despite his links to the group Hizb ut-Tahrir which advocates the establishment of an Islamic state.

His vice-president, Jamal Achchi, 26, also has links to the group, raising concerns that the university’s student union has been taken over by extremists.

In the past members of the group have been accused of encouraging street violence against non-Muslims and of sexism and homophobia.

The Prime Minister has said the group should be banned as it "seeks to poison young minds against our country" although the government has not yet taken action.

Is there a definitive call on who broke Jihadi John tale first? Beeb or WaPo?— David MacLean (@David_MacLean) February 26, 2015

Is there a definitive call on who broke Jihadi John tale first? Beeb or WaPo?

Statement from #SO15 Met Press Office on BBC's naming of #JihadiJohn #ISIS militant as Mohammed Emwazi from London: pic.twitter.com/FPV4G8zm7L— Julia Macfarlane (@juliamacfarlane) February 26, 2015

Statement from #SO15 Met Press Office on BBC's naming of #JihadiJohn #ISIS militant as Mohammed Emwazi from London: pic.twitter.com/FPV4G8zm7L

11.22 The Independent newspaper reported in a story in 2010 that two British jihadists had been stopped by MI5 in Tanzania. In the article, Emwazi is identified as Muhammad ibn Muazzam. It claims that Emwazi was put on a terror watch list by MI5:

Abu Talib and Muhammad ibn Muazzam, both in their mid-20s, and a German friend travelling with them, allege they were threatened with beatings by members of Tanzania's security forces. After being refused entry to Tanzania they were returned to the Netherlands, where they say they were questioned by MI5 agents who accused them of having links to Islamic extremists.

11.18 Immediately after the Washington Post published the name, the BBC also released a story, explaining they had chosen not to unmask Jihadi John earlier for operational reasons.

11.12 Asim Qureshi, research director at the rights group, CAGE, told the Washington Post:

There was an extremely strong resemblance.

This is making me feel fairly certain that this is the same person.

11.12 Telegraph video on the rise of Isil:

Don't let anyone tell you otherwise, the journalist who knew about Jihadi John and who broke this story is @adamgoldmanwp. Superb work.— Shiraz Maher (@ShirazMaher) February 26, 2015

Don't let anyone tell you otherwise, the journalist who knew about Jihadi John and who broke this story is @adamgoldmanwp. Superb work.

11.00 The terrorist apparently studied computer sciences at Westminister University. The Washington Post describes Emwazi as Kuwaiti born and in his mid-20s. He was apparently raised in a middle class neighbourhood in north London and occasionally prayed at a mosque in Greenwich. Friends told the Post that Emwazi began to radicalise after a planned safari to Tanzania following his graduation from Westminster.

Emwazi and two friends were arrested in Dar-es-Salaam in May 2009 and then deported. He then flew to Amsterdam where he apparently claimed an officer from MI5 accused him of trying to join al-Shabaab.

One of Emwazi’s close friends who identified him told the Post

I have no doubt that Mohammed is Jihadi John.

He was like a brother to me. . . . I am sure it is him.

10.50 Jihadi John named as Mohammed Emwazi, according to reports in the Washington Post - follow latest updates here.