YouTube prankster Josh Paler Lin decided to give a man named Thomas the money and follow him to see how he spends it. His first stop was a local liquor store but instead of buying alcohol he purchased food that he gave away to others in need.

A homeless man was given a chance, and he touched an awful lot of surprised people.

A viral online video from YouTube prankster Josh Paler Lin tells the story of a homeless man named Thomas and his desire to not let his circumstances keep him from being selfless - by using his newfound money to help not himself, but others.

Josh made the video, which has received more than 11 million hits by Wednesday morning, with the idea to give a random homeless person $100 and secretly follow him to see how he spends it.

He meets an elderly man with gray hair, a mustache and dark jacket named Thomas holding up a sign along a highway. He tells Josh he's just trying to get enough to buy something to eat and Josh shocks him with the $100.

"Oh goodness. Oh no way," he says as Josh pulls five $20 bills from his wallet. "Oh brother, are you sure? I'm starting to tear up over here. That's like incredible."

Josh reassures him it's totally fine as they hug. Thomas says he never had something like this happen before in his life.

The next part of the video seemed to be expected by many viewers but Thomas surprised them all.

He packed up his stuff and began walking down the road to a liquor store. The video records him exit the store with several bags, but he didn't buy alcohol.

He purchased food that he then delivered to other needy people in a nearby park.

Josh appears to tell Thomas what was going on.

"I feel like I owe you an apology," Josh said as he reaches to grab Thomas' hand. "You went to a liquor store earlier —"

"You thought I was going to get all smacked up drunk, huh?" Thomas interrupts. "But there's things money can't buy and I get a happiness out of what I'm doing."

Ironically during Josh's confession a man sitting at a picnic table behind them takes a swig from a bottle wrapped in a plastic bag.

But Josh wanted to contribute to Thomas's good deeds. He reached into his wallet again and gave him another $100.

"You just touched my heart," he told his new friend.

Thomas was stunned again.

"I don't know what to say. Usually I'm pretty talkative," he replied.

Thomas explained that he recently quit his job and was caring for his ailing stepfather who ultimately died of cancer. His mom died two weeks later from kidney failure and suddenly their building was sold leaving Thomas without a place to live.

"There's a lot of people that are just victims of circumstance. There's a lot of good people that are homeless," he said. "You're doing good … you'll bump into good people. That's all there is to it. You're on a different path somehow in life. I can't explain it."

But Josh is trying to change his path.

He established a fund-raising campaign to help Thomas get a new home and a job.

The fund had a goal of $10,000 but it surpassed $55,000 through Wednesday morning.

"People think I changed his life," Josh told TODAY. "For me, it's completely the opposite. I feel that he changed my life."

USING A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO SEE THE VIDEO.

jlandau@nydailynews.com