The recording, allegedly made near the shooting scene, seems to indicate the officer who shot Brown paused briefly in the middle of shooting at least 10 times. CNN aired the tape but cautioned that it could not independently verify whether it was authentic.

A new audio recording surfaced Monday night that allegedly indicates the police officer who shot Michael Brown paused briefly in the middle of unleashing a barrage of at least 10 bullets.

CNN aired the tape but cautioned that it could not independently verify whether it was authentic. It was allegedly filmed near the shooting scene in Ferguson, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis, on Aug. 9.

It was reportedly recorded by a Ferguson resident who could be heard talking with or about a woman while gunfire suddenly erupted in the background.

About six shots in rapid fire could be heard, followed by two seconds of quiet and four additional shots.

“That was what caught my attention initially,” said Lopa Blumenthal, a lawyer for the unnamed man who claims to have made the recording. “It shows a point of contemplation.”

CNN said it could not corroborate the tape’s authenticity, and has reached out to the FBI for confirmation.

Six months before he shot and killed unarmed teenager Michael Brown, police Officer Darren Wilson (pictured) earned a commendation for his “extraordinary effort in the line of duty.” Wilson’s father posted these photos to his Facebook page.

Michael Brown (left) was shot by Ferguson, Mo., Police Officer Darren Wilson (right).

Brown, 18, was unarmed when Officer Darren Wilson shot him after stopping the teen for jaywalking. Witnesses have said that after the initial confrontation with the cop, in which at least one round was fired, Brown was walking away with his hands up and was fired at again.

If the audio is verified by investigators, the pause could bolster the witness accounts.

A preliminary autopsy showed that the teenager was struck at least six times, with two bullets hitting his head.

oyaniv@nydailynews.com

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.