Fox & Friends got very excited Thursday morning over rumors, which they credited to Jordanian TV, that King Abdullah of Jordan had potentially participated in retaliatory airstrikes against ISIS after the immolation death of Jordanian pilot Muath al-Kasaesbeh.

“What a statement that would make,” Steve Doocy said.

“He is stepping up with strong leadership and clarity,” Elisabeth Hasselbeck said. “What is our president doing?

Fox aired photos of of King Abdullah in flight gear, which had been making the rounds on Twitter since Wednesday evening:

Reports that Jordanian King Abdullah, himself a pilot, will fly sorties on ISIS targets. pic.twitter.com/mZetDARLOI — Joseph Braude (@josephbraude) February 4, 2015

عاجل ⭕️| ضربة جوية اردنية على معاقل #داعش الآن يشارك فيها ملك #الاردن "عبدالله الثاني" pic.twitter.com/7Z1hDUKunp — عاجل المملكة (@KsaBrk) February 4, 2015

This got conservative Twitter all riled up:

Looking forward to Brian Williams sharing his memories of flying today's combat mission against ISIL with King Abdullah. — Drew McCoy (@DrewMTips) February 4, 2015

The photos were eventually revealed to be from a video last year in which Abdullah took several young cancer patients on a flight. Doocy acknowledged the photos were old before adding, “But he is a pilot.”

Alas, no hero warrior head of state today:

Photos of Jord King RT'ed from @KsaBrk appear to be old and misleading. Arabic reports of a planned attack are numerous but unverifiable. — Joseph Braude (@josephbraude) February 5, 2015

From @RenaNetjes, Arabic press reports of Jordanian king's flight sortie have been denied by an official spokesperson. @deborahamos — Joseph Braude (@josephbraude) February 5, 2015

Al Arabiya confirmed that Abdullah did not take part in any air strikes, and contradicted Doocy’s statement that he was a pilot:

Meanwhile, a Jordanian government official on Thursday told Al Arabiya News that King Abdullah was not flying missions against ISIS himself, after local media reports – also taken by some international outlets – indicated he is set to do so. The official also noted that observers should refrain from calling King Abdullah a fighter pilot as he does not officially hold the title. He is, however, the commander-in-chief of the Jordanian Air Force. The king is a trained combatant, part of the parachute brigade and flies civilian planes and helicopters, the official added.

Doocy quietly corrected he record at the end of the next segment. “By the way, I should point out we understand that so far the king has not taken part in any of the raids,” Doocy said. “But he may going forward.” What a statement that would make.

Watch the video below, via Fox News:

OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer-Z3dGc2czrQVCoEqaakHjo4uzs7nqtSWv', 'Z3dGc2czrQVCoEqaakHjo4uzs7nqtSWv'); });

Please enable Javascript to watch.

[Image via screengrab]

—— >> Follow Evan McMurry (@evanmcmurry) on Twitter