The artist whose real name was Henry Jackson passed away at about 2 a.m. Tuesday in the New York City area. A founding member of 1980s revolutionary hip hop group The Sugarhill Gang, Big Bank Hank was best known for his verses on 'Rapper's Delight,' which was No. 248 on Rolling Stone's list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.

Big Bank Hank, one of the founding members of iconic 1980s hip hop group The Sugarhill Gang, died early Tuesday morning after a battle with cancer. He was 57.

The news was first reported by music blog InFlexWeTrust.com. TMZ reported that the rapper — born Henry Jackson on Aug. 5, 1957, in the Bronx — died at about 2 a.m. Tuesday in the greater New York City area.

“So sad to hear of our brother’s passing,” wrote fellow group members Wonder Mike and Master Gee in a statement to TMZ.

From left, Wonder Mike, Master G and Big Bank Hank perform live circa 1979.

Big Bank Hank, left, leaves behind fellow group members Wonder Mike, ceinter, and Master G, right.

The Sugarhill Gang quickly rose to fame in the 1980s with their hit, 'Rapper's Delight,' and left a legacy as one of the greatest hip hop groups of all time.

Hank’s Sugarhill Gang, which was named after the Sugar Hill neighborood in Manhattan, made music history in 1979 when their single “Rapper’s Delight” became the first hip hop track to be listed in the Top 40 charts in the United States.

The track is widely considered to be the first song to popularize hip hop. Rolling Stone ranked it No. 248 on its list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time, and it came in at No. 2 on VH1’s 100 Greatest Hip Hop Songs.

Big Bank Hank was born in the Bronx and died in the New York City area.

Big Bank Hank performs during the Justin Timberlake and Friends Old School Jam concert benefiting Shriners Hospitals for Children at the Planet Hollywood Theater for the Performing Arts in October 2011 in Las Vegas.

Big Bank Hank poses for a portrait at Sugar Hill Records in January 1984 in Englewood, N.J.

Henry Jackson loved to rap about trying to steal Lois Lane away from Superman.

Hank, known in his songs as "the grandmaster with 3 MCs that shock the house for the young ladies,” rapped in his verses about competing with Superman for Lois Lane.

The Sugarhill Gang, a seminal hip group in music history, had five studio albums including their 1980 self-titled record. The group released its last one, "Jump on It!," a hip hop children's album, in 1999.