“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” is one of the most highly anticipated movies of 2015 that is scheduled to be released during winter. The latest reports, however, claim that J.J. Abrams, the director of the seventh episode of the epic space opera, wants an early release date for his movie.

“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” is currently scheduled to be released on Dec. 18, 2015. Based on YouTuber Votesaxon 07’s video, Movie Pilot reports that J.J. Abrams wants to release “Episode 7” in the summer of 2015. The report by the aforementioned entertainment news publication claims that the 48-year-old director made the announcement at the Visual Effects Society Awards 2015.

The publication claims that the reason why J.J. Abrams wants to release “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” almost six months before its scheduled date is the alleged plot and images leaks from the sets and script. The moviemaker is now worried that these plot leaks will make the film “predictable and not worth watching” for the audience.

According to the website, moving the release date forward would be “an extremely brave move,” putting it up against other fan-favourite releases such as “Avengers: Age of Ultron,” “Jurassic World” and “Ant-Man.” However, shifting the release date means a lot of work for the moviemakers and the studio. Meanwhile, Ikwiz reports that Disney is “seriously” considering J.J. Abrams' demand of summer release of “Star Wars: The Force Awakens.”

Fans must note that these reports lack official comments from the associated parties; thus, the information must be taken with a pinch of salt. However, fans know that Disney is seriously dealing with the issue of image leak. Recently, the studio issued a subpoena over the leak of images from “Star Wars: The Force Awakens.”

In additional news, J.J. Abrams finally broke his silence on the controversy over the new lightsaber that debuted in “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” trailer. Speaking to Collider at a Hollywood event, the director admitted receiving tons of emails arguing about the new lightsaber and its functionality.

"It's been the funniest thing to see the arguments that have developed over this thing,” J.J Abrams said. "This was not done without a lot of conversation. It's fun to see people have the conversation that we had, but in reverse,” the director explained.

“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” features John Boyega as Finn, Daisy Ridley as Rey, Oscar Isaac as Poe Dameron, Harrison For as Han Solo, Carrie Fisher as Leia, Mark Hamill as Luke Skywalker, and Domhnall Gleeson, Max von Sydow and Adam Driver, all in unspecified roles. Stay tuned for more updates.

To report problems or leave feedback on this article, email: j.kaur@IBTimes.com.au.

Read more about “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” below:

‘Star Wars: The Force Awakens’ Possible Plot Details On Main Cast Revealed, Luke Skywalker Guarding ‘Ancient Sith Tomb,’ Plus More Spoilers