There is no end to Apple’s woes when it comes to the iPhone 6

Forget #bendgate, iPhone 6 Plus users have discovered a new woe to add to their list of complaints, and it already has its own hashtag: #hairgate.

After reports that Apple’s new handset bends if enough pressure is applied to it, users are now taking to Twitter to claim that the smartphone is catching hairs from people’s heads and beards and pulling them out.

“I’m concerned about my iPhone 6 Plus, keeps yanking out my hair when I’m making a call,” an anonymous user wrote in a community post on 9to5mac.com.

According to Twitter users, hairs get stuck in the fine seam between the glass and the aluminium on the new handsets.

People are joking about #hairgate but this is actually a real problem. Haha. It has pulled out my goatee hairs. Hurts!— Quinn Nelson (@SnazzyQ) October 6, 2014The seam on my iPhone 6 where the aluminum meets the glass is definitely catching my hair and pulling it out. #seamgate #hairgate #gdhurts— Scott Bilsky (@str8ngelybrown) October 6, 2014My iphone6 drives me crazy, my hair has been caught for times. #Hairgate— Ccoszbruno (@b397876112) October 6, 2014Haven’t had have a problem with my iPhone 6 Plus bending…but I definitely have had facial hair pulled. Consider Hipster Beards! #hairgate— Paul Martens (@PaulMartens) October 5, 2014The seam on my iPhone 6 where the aluminum meets the glass is definitely catching my hair and pulling it out. #seamgate— Paul Peavler (@CardMeHD) September 28, 2014My hair keeps getting caught in the microscopic seam between glass and aluminium on my iPhone 6— Kavan (@KavKilledKenny) October 1, 2014

People are joking about #hairgate but this is actually a real problem. Haha. It has pulled out my goatee hairs. Hurts!

The seam on my iPhone 6 where the aluminum meets the glass is definitely catching my hair and pulling it out. #seamgate #hairgate #gdhurts

My iphone6 drives me crazy, my hair has been caught for times. #Hairgate

Haven’t had have a problem with my iPhone 6 Plus bending…but I definitely have had facial hair pulled. Consider Hipster Beards! #hairgate

The seam on my iPhone 6 where the aluminum meets the glass is definitely catching my hair and pulling it out. #seamgate

My hair keeps getting caught in the microscopic seam between glass and aluminium on my iPhone 6

When the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus were first released, numerous pictures of the handsets that had been unintentionally bent appeared on Twitter.

While Apple says it has only received a handful of official complaints about the issue, it is thought that the new phones are susceptible to being bent because the iPhone 6 Plus is so much larger than previous phones.

At the time, Apple said that with “normal use” a bend in the iPhone should be “extremely rare,” and that the new handsets feature “steel/titanium inserts to reinforce stress locations and use the strongest glass in the industry”.