Henry Jackson, aka Big Bank Hank of the pioneering rap group Sugarhill Gang, has died of cancer, according to TMZ and some of Jackson’s friends on Twitter. David Mallie, who manages the group’s two remaining living members, confirmed Jackson’s death to Fox News.

R.I.P. Big Bank Hank. One third of the song that made all of this Hip Hop Music possible. Thanx for opening the door. http://t.co/yrXx9dBo8M

— Dark Gable (@bigdaddykane) November 11, 2014

Respect. Prayers up. God Bless. RT @Combat_Jack: RIP Big Bank Hank Aug. 5 1957 – Nov. 11 2014

— Bun B (@BunBTrillOG) November 11, 2014

RIP Big Bank Hank of the Sugarhill Gang #pioneer

— QTip (@QtipTheAbstract) November 11, 2014

You were one of the guys who inspired me to touch the Mic. Rip Big Bank Hank. #ThankYou. #Tears http://t.co/CRdpjPLBB8

— GOAT. (@llcoolj) November 11, 2014

Jackson, 57, was best known for this verse in the iconic song, “Rapper’s Delight.” Released in 1979, the track became hip-hop’s first crossover hit and paved the way for rap to enter the mainstream.

Check it out, I’m the C-A-S-AN, the O-V-A and the rest is F-L-Y You see, I go by the code of the doctor of the mix and these reasons I’ll tell you why You see I’m six foot one and I’m tons of fun and I dress to a tee You see I got more clothes than Muhammad Ali and I dress so viciously I got bodyguards, I got two big cars, that definitely ain’t the whack I got a Lincoln continental and a sunroof Cadillac So after school, I take a dip in the pool, which really is on the wall I got a color TV so I can see the Knicks play basketball Hear me talking ’bout checkbooks, credit cards, more money than a sucker could ever spend But I wouldn’t give a sucker or a bum from the Rucker, not a dime ’til I made it again Everybody go: Hotel, motel, whatcha gonna do today (say what?) Cause I’ma get a fly girl, gonna get some spank and drive off in a def OJ Everybody go: Hotel, motel, Holiday Inn You see, if your girl starts acting up, then you take her friend Uh Master Gee, am I mellow? It’s on you so what you gonna do?

Here’s the group performing the song during Soul Train:

“Rapper’s Delight” has since inspired countless wannabe rappers to spit those rhymes — even Brian Williams. Sort of.