ISIS video screenshot

What We Know So Far

Updates

The Guardian posted this enhanced audio of Emwazi’s voice from a January 2015 video:

w.soundcloud.com

Cage UK, a counter-terrorism activist group which had discussions with Emwazi before he left for Syria, has issued a statement blaming British foreign policy for his radicalisation:

“Like Michael Adebolajo, suffocating domestic policies aimed at turning a person into an informant but which prevent a person from fulfilling their basic life needs would have left a lasting impression on Emwazi. He desperately wanted to use the system to change his situation, but the system ultimately rejected him.”

“We now have evidence that there are several young Britons whose lives were not only ruined by security agencies, but who became disenfranchised and turned to violence because of British counter-terrorism policies coupled with long standing grievances over Western foreign policy.

“This case should trigger thinking about British domestic and foreign policy. What risk assessments, if any, have been made about British counter-terrorism policy and the key part it plays in radicalising individuals? How have the security services been allowed to get away with abusing British citizens without redress? Why are the long-standing grievances over Western interventions in the Muslim world been ignored?

One of Emwazi’s neighbours in Queen’s Park, who identified himself only as Abdullah, told reporters that the family seemed very normal.

He added that he had lived in the block for three years, but had had very little interaction with the Emwazis.  Carl Court / Getty Images

“Jihadi John” appeared in multiple ISIS videos, threatening hostages who would later be killed.

ISIS

Peter Kassig, a US aid worker, killed in December 2014.

David Cawthorne Haines, a Scottish aid worker, killed in September 2014.

Alan Henning, a British aid worker, killed in October 2014.

The naming of Emwazi appears to discredit earlier reports naming “Jihadi John” as Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, a London rapper.

Telegraph

The jihadist fighter was previously named as the most likely of three suspects being investigated by the British security services. Abdel Bary is, however, believed to be an ISIS fighter, having been pictured holding the severed head of a prisoner in Syria.

British officials are not pleased with the decision to identify “Jihadi John”. David Cameron’s spokesman has declined to confirm his identity.

No 10 will not confirm or deny that Jihadi John is Mohammed Emwazi, but cautions against work of security services being jeopardised

Reporters were also told that MI5’s work could be affected by the decision to out Emwazi.

Reporters are gathering outside the flat in Queen’s Park where Emwazi’s family are believed to live.

Reporters outside block of flats where jihadi john was said to live. Not confirmed.

Emwazi has been previously named in UK court documents as having connections to a network of Islamist extremists based in Somalia.

Jihadi John: Here's one of the court documents that includes Emwazi, the man known to be the ISIS militant:

AFP

“Jihadi John”, the masked ISIS militant who featured in videos threatening the beheading of multiple hostages, has been identified as a west Londoner named Mohammed Emwazi by the BBC and the Washington Post, which cited Emwazi’s friends and individuals in the security services.

“Jihadi John” appeared in multiple videos wielding a knife and threatening ISIS hostages including journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, British aid workers David Haines and Alan Henning, US national Peter Kassig, and Japanese nationals Haruna Yukawa and Kenji Goto Jogo.

Emwazi was described by the Washington Post as a computer science graduate from the University of Westminster.

The newspaper said Emwazi was born in Kuwait, is in his mid-twenties, and was depicted by those who knew him as someone who was “polite and had a penchant for wearing stylish clothes while adhering to the tenets of his Islamic faith”.

He was described as being from a well-off family, and as having spent several years working in Kuwait before heading to Syria in around 2012.

The newspaper said Emwazi had also operated under the name Muhammad ibn Muazzam, and that British security services questioned him in 2010.

An individual named Muhammad ibn Muazzam was identified by The Independent in May 2010 as having been questioned by security services with a friend after coming home from a safari in Tanzania.

“The men allege they were harassed by MI5, who warned them they were now on a terror watch list which prevented them travelling to any Muslim country,” The Independent reported at the time.

In the piece, the two men claimed they were “held for ‘days’ in inhumane detention on the orders of MI5”.

The Guardian has obtained emails in which Emwazi said MI5 attempted to recruit him. The newspaper wrote:

In emails seen by the Guardian, Emwazi said the British agent knew “everything about me; where I lived, what I did, and the people I hanged around with”. He then it is claimed attempted to “turn” Emwazi, asking: “Why don’t you work for us?”. When he refused MI5 said “life would be harder for you”.

Commander Richard Walton of the Metropolitan police’s Counter Terrorism Command unit has declined to confirm the identity of the jihadi, saying:

We have previously asked media outlets not to speculate about the details of our investigation on the basis that life is at risk.

We are not going to confirm the identity of anyone at this stage or give an update on the progress of this live counter-terrorism investigation.