Editors' note: This image, which is unique according to a reverse image search done on Tin Eye, was posted on the @Banksy Instagram account to its nearly 1 million followers. It is not, however, confirmed to be an official account operated by the artist. It could be Banksy, but the artist's real accounts are unclear. We've changed the headline and story below to reflect that.

A popular Banksy Instagram account weighed in on Wednesday with a powerful homage to the murdered journalists at the French newspaper Charlie Hebdo, victims of a horrific terror attack.

Take a look:

A photo posted by Banksy (@banksy) on Jan 1, 2015 at 3:02pm PST

The account, which has nearly one million followers — though it is not known to be an official Banksy Instagram account — posted a picture on featuring three pencils — the pencil fully intact is next to the word "yesterday," a broken pencil represents "today," and the resharpened shard shows there will be two pencils "tomorrow."

It adds: "RIP," joining scores of other cartoonists and artists who have been sharing tributes throughout the day.

Twelve people were killed in what France's president called a "terror attack" on satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris on Wednesday, leading authorities to launch a massive manhunt for the gunmen, who remain at large. No arrests have been confirmed in the hunt for the attackers, though an "anti-terror raid" is reportedly underway in the northeastern city of Reims.

The brothers, caught on tape by an eyewitness, shouted "Allahu akbar!" as they walked outside the building carrying large guns and dressed entirely in black. The magazine staff was in an editorial meeting, around lunchtime in Paris, when the gunmen opened fire. Eleven others were wounded; four of those injuries are serious.

Witnesses described the gunmen as speaking perfect French.

Charlie Hebdo has frequently drawn condemnation from Muslims. In 2011, the magazine was firebombed after it ran a cartoon depicting the Prophet Muḥammad.

The editor in charge of the paper was one of those killed on Wednesday. There was no immediate claim of responsibility, though supporters of militant groups like the Islamic State and al-Qaeda praised the attack online. World leaders condemned it as an attack on freedom of expression.

Additional reporting by Mashable staff. Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.