Late last month, as Apple fans were joyously spending their first days with the brand new iPhone 6 Plus, rumours began to swirl that putting the phone in your pocket could irreversibly bend it.

Twitter called it "#bendgate," and the ensuing panic-storm got millions of people talking about the perils of skinny jeans, phablets, and buying Apple products.

As it turns out, however, #bendgate was a bust.

According to Apple, instances of phones bending in users' pockets were "extremely rare," with only nine customers actually contacting the company about a curved iPhone 6 Plus within its first six days of sale.

So, naturally, we were a little bit skeptical when reports that the seam between the iPhone 6's body and camera lens had been pulling people's hair (and beards) out began to surface.

#Hairgate and #beardgate have been everywhere this week, with mainstream news outlets and social media users alike fanning the fire over Apple's latest perceived blunder.






Many are, in fact, referring to #hairgate as the new #bendgate — and we'd have to agree, based on the simple fact that they appear about as equally as legit.

"Having reviewed the iPhone 6 and currently being in possession of an iPhone 6 Plus... I can report the gap between the front glass and aluminium does not exist," writes Gordon Kelley for Forbes. "There is a bevel, but the glass front panel is actually fused to the aluminium and the tiny gap you do see is significantly narrower than a human hair."

Mashable conducted its own experiment to conclude that "hairgate is a bust" in an article called "The iPhone 6 'Hairgate' Is Not a Thing."

At least 10 people rubbed the iPhone 6 through their hair and over their beards vigorously in Mashable's video piece, none of them getting so much as a snag.

"After exhaustive amounts of research — we've gone with beards, curly hair, long hair, short hair, your hair, my hair — hairgate is not a thing," concluded Mashable's Christina Warren. "Sorry guys, maybe next time."

#Hairgate is Not a Thing | Mashable
MASHABLE·A DAY AGO
Many are backing up the website's claims with experiences of their own on Twitter.





While others are simply making fun of the panicked masses by trolling with jokes and #hairgate photos of their own.





And some are also pointing out the most important flaw in the argument for #hairgate's legitimacy: Who actually uses a smartphone to make or take calls anymore?