A baseball cap and a portrait of Michael Brown is shown alongside his casket inside Friendly Temple Missionary Baptist Church before the start of funeral services in St. Louis, Missouri. Photo: Reuters

Ferguson: An audio recording released on Tuesday morning may shed light on the death of a Missouri teenager fatally shot by a police officer August 9, which have sparked protests that resumed this week.

The tape, provided to CNN, allegedly contains audio captured during a Ferguson resident's video chat at the time of the shooting. CNN says the authenticity of the tape has yet to be verified, but what appears to be gunfire can be heard in the background of the call.

As many as 10 shot-like sounds can be heard. Several shots are fired in what appears to be fairly quick succession. There is a brief pause, then more shots are fired.

An autopsy concluded that Michael Brown, 18, was shot six times, with two fatal shots to the head. The Ferguson officer involved has been identified as Darren Wilson, 28.

Law enforcement officials and bystanders have provided differing accounts of what led to the fatal encounter. Police say Mr Wilson stopped Brown and a friend for walking in the street, asking the two to move to the sidewalk, and words were exchanged. According to Mr Wilson's account, he was attacked by Brown as he attempted to exit his cruiser and the two scuffled for the officer's gun inside the car.

Both Mr Wilson and witnesses concede Brown took off running. The witnesses say the officer fired on the unarmed teen as he had his hands up to surrender. Wilson supporters say Brown was bull-rushing Wilson, who shot Brown in self-defense.

The shooting ignited racial tensions, sparking several days and nights of protests, riots, looting and unrest, which have resumed.

More than 100 demonstrators marched in St. Louis on Tuesday demanding the arrest of a white police officer who shot dead an unarmed black teenager in Ferguson, Missouri.

The protesters, who called for Mr Wilson's arrest and the removal of Ferguson police leaders, were blocked from walking up the courthouse steps by a group of officers, most on bicycles.

Few signs were visible at what has been the centre of the protests along West Florissant in Ferguson, a St. Louis suburb.

A man under a gazebo sold T-shirts that read "Hands up, don't shoot," the chant favoured by demonstrators, as the temperature reached 34 Celsius at midday.

People gathered in small groups at the impromptu memorial set up where Brown died and two women handed out food from a folding table.

"This community has had a story to tell for a long time and this has just been the catalyst," said Chelsea Warlick, 29, a photographer from Savannah, Georgia. The majority of people in Ferguson are black, while most of its elected officials and police force are white.

Ms Warlick, who laid white roses by the memorial, said she was about to sign a six-month lease on an apartment in the complex where Brown lived to support the community.

"The verdict is everything. If he doesn't go to jail for what he did this place is going to burn," she said of Mr Wilson.

The Missouri National Guard, which began a gradual pullout from Ferguson on Friday, was absent from a spot on West Florissant they had occupied late on Monday.

Brown's funeral service was Monday, and the case is currently being presented to a grand jury. Attorney General Eric Holder has promised a thorough investigation.

The organisation Black Lawyers for Justice plans to file a $US200 million class action lawsuit against Ferguson authorities Tuesday, KDSK-TV reported. According to the organisation's website, the group's mission is to fight police brutality.

MCT, Reuters