Outline
A story circulating via social media reports that more than 250,000 holiday turkeys on a Texas farm may be infected with the deadly Ebola virus and will have to be destroyed. The report features a photograph depicting dead turkeys in a farm shed. 

Texas turkey farm
© Depositphotos.com/ bazil 

 
Brief Analysis
The claims are nonsense. No such incident has occurred in Texas or anywhere else in the US. The story comes from a dubious 'news' site called Daily Buzz Live that publishes a combination of sensationalized but factual news items and outright fiction disguised as news. The 'Ebola Turkey' story is an example of the latter. 


 
Example
Texas Turkey Farm Contaminated With Ebola, Over 250,000 Holiday Turkeys Infected

A Texas turkey farm employee is now under quarantine after he tested positive for the Ebola virus. Texas Prime Turkey Farm, the largest supplier of turkeys in the United States, has been ordered by the CDC to quarantine over 250,000 holiday turkeys. The CDC has confirmed 3,000 turkeys have tested positive for the virus since Friday’s incident.

Detailed Analysis

 
Story Claims Texas Turkeys Contaminated With Ebola
According to a story that is flapping vigorously around the interwebs, thousands of holiday turkeys at the Texas Prime Turkey Farm have been contaminated with Ebola. 

The story claims that an Ebola infected worker on the farm contaminated the turkeys. Supposedly, the CDC has confirmed that 3000 of the turkeys have already been tested positive for the virus and that the farm has been ordered to burn all 250,000 turkeys.

The story features a photograph depicting a huge farm shed littered with the bodies of deceased turkeys.

Story Is False - No Such Incident Has Occurred
Thankfully, however, the claims in the story are nonsense.  No such incident has occurred, in Texas or anywhere else.  

The report comes from a trashy 'news' site called Daily Buzz Live.  While the site does include some sensationalized reports on real incidents, it also features stories that are entirely fiction.  The site has the following disclaimer on its Contact page:

Daily Buzz Live is a news web publication with news articles. Most are inspired by real news events, And just a few stories are works of complete fiction. Those few articles are for entertainment purposes only. The articles and stories may or may not use real names, always a semi real and/or mostly, or substantially, fictitious ways. Therefore, just a few articles contained on this website Daily Buzz Live are works of fiction. Any truth or actual facts contained in those stories or posts are purely incidental or coincidental and not intended to be, or be construed as, facts.
The site's fictional 'entertainment' content is presented in the same format as its true reports. And the site does not clearly identify what is true and what is fiction. 

Of course, if such a significant incident were true, it would have been widely reported by news outlets all around the world. In reality, the only places that the story appears are on DailyBuzzLive and other dubious sites that have copied its content. 

The image used in the story has no connection with Ebola and was stolen from genuine but much earlier reports.  The image depicts turkeys killed during US flooding caused by Hurricane Floyd in September 1999.

Beware Of Ebola Hoaxes
This is just one among many Ebola related hoaxes that have circulated in recent weeks. Because Ebola is currently commanding so much media attention around the world, it has become fertile ground for pranksters and scammers. It is important to confirm any Ebola related stories that come your way on social media before you share them or click any links that they may contain.