The heroic sergeant-at-arms who shot dead a lone gunman in Canada's Parliament on Wednesday has been greeted back to work with a lengthy standing ovation.

Kevin Vickers, 58, struggled to contain his emotions as members of the House of Commons paid tribute to his bravery, which put an end to Michael Zehaf-Bibeau's shooting spree.

Rousing footage shows Vickers leading a ceremonial parade into the chamber on Thursday morning and being greeted by enthusiastic applause from the members of Parliament.

He managed to stay mostly expressionless throughout the standing ovation - simply nodding in thanks several times - but as the cheers continued, he appeared to tear up with emotion.

Scroll down for videos

Overwhelmed: Kevin Vickers, the sergeant-at-arms for Canada's House of Commons, becomes emotional as members of Parliament applaud him on Thursday, a day after he shot dead a gunman inside the building

On their feet: Members of Parliament clap for Vickers after he led a ceremonial parade into the chamber

Stoic: He managed to keep a straight face as he completed the ceremonial parade on Thursday morning

The rousing standing ovation in the House of Commons continued as he walked through the chamber

Thankful: After he assumes his position at the end of the chamber, the minutes-long applause continues

After reaching his position at the end of the chambers, he was greeted by Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who shook his hand.

Following a minute of silence, Harper embraced Liberal leader Justin Trudeau and Opposition leader Thomas Mulcair and read a statement expressing thanks to the bravery of the security staff.

'We will not be intimidated,' he said, CTV News reported 'We will be vigilant, but we will not run scared. We will be prudent, but we will not panic.

'Here we are, in our seats, in our chamber in the very heart of Canadian democracy, and the work is going on.'

His speech also came just days after a previous terror attack, in which a man with jihadist sympathies ran over two Canadian soldiers in Quebec, killing one.

Following the show of support, Vickers released a statement expressing his gratitude.

Appreciation: Vickers nodded in thanks several times as the applause continued for his heroic feat

Service: Prime Minister Stephen Harper shakes hands with the sergeant-at-arms during the meeting

Thankful: He thanked Vickers for shooting the suspect during Wednesday's incident and ending the terror

Humbled: He took over the role of sergeant-at-arms 8 years ago after working with the RCMP for 29 years

'I am very touched by the attention directed at me following yesterday’s events,' he said. 'However, I have the support of a remarkable security team that is committed to ensuring the safety of Members, employees and visitors to the Hill.'

He went on: 'On behalf of all members of the House of Commons Security Services team, I would like to extend our deepest condolences to the family of Cpl. Nathan Cirillo. Our prayers are with you.

'Our thoughts are also with Constable Samearn Son, who has been with the House of Commons Security Services for 10 years. Constable Son suffered a gun shot wound to the leg. He is in stable condition and expected to make a full recovery.'

Vickers served with the RCMP for 29 years before assuming the role at Parliament eight years ago. The sergeant-at-arms is in charge of security at the House of Commons.

Despite his lengthy service, family members have revealed that Wednesday's attack was the first time Vickers had ever shot anyone.

'For it now to happen at Parliament ... is unbelievable,' his brother John Vickers told CNN. 'We're just relieved he's OK.'

His sister, Mary, added to the Sun News: 'We're always very proud of Kevin, but at this moment we are concerned about him - he had to make a very serious decision today.'

'He's always a natural leader. He would not have taken this decision lightly, and I can't stress that enough - but he would always expect of himself to do what he would expect of the men and women under him.'

Heroic: He took down Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, pictured - his first ever exchange of gunfire in his career

Hailed a hero: MPs line up to shake hands with the sergeant-at-arms on Thursday morning

Determined: Prime Minister Stephen Harper tells the House of Commons that they will not be initimated

Vickers' family gathered at homes in their hometown of Miramichi, New Brunswick to talk about previous shows of leadership.

The National Post explained how Vickers had been dispatched to the Burnt Church wharf 14 years ago when native and non-native fisherman were scrapping. He often visited when he was off-duty ready to listen to the fishermen and helping to resolve their arguments.

'The inspector was a real community man,' Bobby Sylliboy, a longtime band constable with the Burnt Church First Nation, said. 'He was a professional. And for him to use force, it would have had to have been life or death.'

Relatives added that Vickers' constable son, Andrew, is also a selfless leader after he saved a drowning woman three years ago.

After Wednesday's fraught events, MPs hailed Kevin Vickers a hero.

Riveting video: Vickers led the way as officials chased down terrorist Michael Zehaf-Bibeau on Wednesday after he murdered reservist Nathan Cirillo and entered the House of Commons building

Inches from disaster: The terrifying morning attack happened just outside the MPs' caucus rooms

Job done: Kevin Vickers, Canada's House of Commons' sergeant-at-arms, looks around the hallways with a gun in his hand after shooting dead an attacker, Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, on Wednesday morning

'I am writing this note on behalf of my husband and myself. No words can express the sadness we are feeling at this time.

'We are so sad that a man lost his life. He has lost everything and he leaves behind a family that must feel nothing but pain and sorrow. We send our deepest condolences to them although words seem pretty useless. We are both crying for them. We also wish to apologize for all the pain, fright and chaos he created.

'We have no explanation to offer. I am mad at our son, I don't understand and part of me wants to hate him at this time. You write that our son was vulnerable, we don't know, we (he) was lost and did not fit in.

I his mother spoke with him last week over lunch, I had not seen him for over five years before that. So I have very little insight to offer.

We don't wish to be part of any media circus, we don't think it will add anything to the conversation. Please respect our privacy although many may not feel we deserve any ... Once again we are so sorry.'

'MPs and Hill staff owe their safety, even lives, to Sergeant at Arms Kevin Vickers who shot attacker just outside the MPs' caucus rooms,' tweeted New Democrat MP Craig Scott on Wednesday.

Matt Miller, the Vancouver Observer's parliamentary bureau chief, concurred.

'Kevin is definitely a hero,' Miller told CNN.

Vickers serves a largely ceremonial role at the House of Commons, carrying a scepter and wearing rich green robes, white gloves and a tall imperial tricorne hat.

A fit, tall 6-foot-4, Vickers spends many of his lunch breaks running in order to stay fit. He also carries a 9mm pistol while at work.

Both things appeared to come in extremely handy while Vickers took down the parliament terrorist Wednesday.

'It's Kevin being Kevin,' his cousin Keith told CBC. 'He's a very intelligent and responsible person. He's a people person-type fellow, too, but you don't want to mess with him.'

He was called into action after Michael Zehaf-Bibeau ran towards the National War Memorial just before 10am on Wednesday and shot Corporal Nathan Cirillo, a single dad, in the abdomen.

He then ran towards the Parliament and opened fire, shooting dozens of shots as politicians and journalists barricaded doors inside.

Video taken inside Ottawa's House of Commons shows a rush of armed police running toward an unseen suspect.

Victim: Nathan Cirillo, 24, was standing guard at the memorial when he was fatally shot in the abdomen

Remembered: A Canadian flag flies at half staff on top of the Peace Tower at the Parliament on Thursday

Patrol: Members of the Ottawa Police stand guard in front of the War Memorial one day after the attack

Vigilant: A police officer patrols the hallway near the entrance to the Parliamentary Library on Thursday

Chilling: Bullet holes are seen in a window of the rotunda of the House of Commons in Ottawa on Thursday

At the head of the pack is a man - Vickers - moving swiftly with his gun toward Zehaf-Bibeau. Vickers takes aim and fires off multiple shots, killing the gunman.

As shots echo throughout the hall, the video goes wobbly as the men behind their leader Vickers move for cover.

It has since emerged that the gunman - whose full name was Michael, Joseph, Paul, Abdallah Bulgasem Zehaf Bibeau - had recently converted to Islam and had a length history of petty crime.

He had also recently been designated a 'high-risk traveler' by the Canadian government and had his passport seized, according to reports.

On Thursday, his mother Susan Bibeau, who sits on the country's Immigration board, released a statement saying she had been shocked by the shooting spree and, because she had long been estranged from her son, she was unable to shed much light on why he carried out the crime.

Tribute: Prime Minister Stephen Harper visited the scene of the shooting on Thursday morning to lay flowers

All quiet: Evidence tags can be seen on the steps of the memorial as the Harpers walk away

Remembered: Flowers with a card for Corporal Cirillo can be seen at the foot of the War Memorial

She said she felt pain for the victims - not for the loss of her son.

'We are both crying for them,' she told the Associated Press. 'We also wish to apologize for all the pain, fright and chaos he created.

'We have no explanation to offer. I am mad at our son, I don't understand and part of me wants to hate him at this time. You write that our son was vulnerable, we don't know, he was lost.'

On Thursday, flags were flown at half-mast across Canada as a shocked and still fearful Ottawa awoke.

Harper and other MPs stopped to lay a wreath at the war memorial - but as the prime minister arrived, police wrestled a man to the ground for getting too close to the leader, CTV reported.

Security remains tight around the Parliament, as politicians and their staff returned to work on Thursday. The grounds, nearby streets and war memorial are still closed to visitors.

Solemn: Canada's Minister of National Defence Rob Nicholson (center) and Chief of the Defence Staff General Tom Lawson (right) prepare to lay a wreath at the National War Memorial on Thursday

Fallen: The wreath stands at the memorial where Corporal Cirillo was shot dead on Wednesday

Honoring the fallen: An unidentified man prays after placing flowers near the National War Memorial

Arrest: An uniendtified man was arrested for disturbing the crime scene as Harper visited the area

Queen Elizabeth released a statement to the country saying she was saddened by the events.

'Prince Philip and I were shocked and saddened by the events in Ottawa. Our thoughts and prayers are with all those affected' she said.

Cirillo, from Hamilton, Ontario, has been remembered as a generous man and a fitness fanatic, who rescued dogs and was bringing up a kindergarten age son on his own.

'He was an amazing guy,' Michelle Howlett, who briefly dated Cirillo this summer, told the Washington Post. 'He was a real sweetheart. He had a son and was a real great father. He was an exceptional person.'