With Christian Bale already secured to play the lead in Aaron Sorkin's highly anticipated Steve Jobs biopic, Seth Rogen's has now been added to the list of potential cast-members.

The 32-year-old actor is reportedly talks to portray Steve Wozniak - who created the Apple I computer and co-created the Apple II computer in the 1970s - according to The Wrap.

Hollywood actress Jessica Chastain - who is currently starring alongside Matthew McConaughey in Christopher Nolan's Interstellar - is also being courted for a role in the film, simply entitled Jobs.

Scroll down for video

Return of the Mac: Seth Rogen, left, is reportedly in talks to play Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, right, in the upcoming Steve Jobs biography, Jobs

Slumdog Millionaire film-maker Danny Boyle is to direct from a script by Aaron Sorkin, who used Steve Jobs' authorised biography by Walter Isaacson.

The film - which will reportedly not be a traditional biopic - is expected to follow the late technology whiz during three stressful and high profile product launches throughout Apple's history.

While talking with Bloomberg on Thursday, 53-year-old Aaron Sorkin revealed that British actor Christian Bale would be playing the title role in Jobs.

A new Jobs: Christian Bale has been cast as the lead in Aaron Sorkin's upcoming Steve Jobs biopic

Based on the Steve Jobs biography by Walter Isaacson, Jobs will feature Bale, 40, in every frame of the film.

But that daunting acting task doesn’t worry Sorkin, who cast Bale without even an audition and called the Dark Knight trilogy star a ‘phenomenal actor’ during the interview.

If this all seems familiar, that is because another biographical film – with the same name – about Steve Jobs came out in August 2013 to a great deal of fanfare.

Another Steve: Ashton Kutcher played Apple co-founder Steve Jobs in the 2013 film co-starring Josh Gad

Starring Ashton Kutcher, 36, as Jobs, that movie chronicled the Apple co-founder’s career from college in the 1970s through the introduction of the iPod in 2001.

Christian’s version, in contrast, will focus mostly on three major speeches Steve Jobs gave during his career.

‘What we needed was the best actor,’ Sorkin said of Bale, who won an Oscar for his supporting role in 2010’s The Fighter (filmed between instalments of Bale’s Batman movies).

Winner: Despite years of critically acclaimed roles, Bale won his first Academy Award for The Fighter in 2011

Christian was again nominated for an Oscar for 2013’s American Hustle and has been a critically acclaimed actor since starring in Steven Spielberg’s Empire Of The Sun at 14.

Despite being best known as a superhero, Bale is known for physically transforming himself thoroughly between roles and thus should be fine to take on the more cerebral Jobs role.

Before his death in 2011 from pancreatic cancer, Jobs gained a reputation as an excellent speaker, in addition to his work in creating and then transforming Apple Computers.

It’s a big leap from Batman to Jobs, but if there’s one actor who can play both muscle-bound Bruce Wayne and skinny Steve Jobs, it is Christian Bale.

Chameleon: Bale tends to change his look between films, meaning this October 14 photo in Los Angeles is not likely to resemble the actor in Jobs