Aaron Sorkin's upcoming film about former Apple CEO Steve Jobs has reportedly found its Steve Wozniak: Seth Rogen.

The news, first reported by Variety on Thursday, comes just one week after Sorkin confirmed that Christian Bale will portray Jobs in the Sony Pictures film, which is based on Walter Isaacson's biography of the late tech luminary.

Sony did not immediately respond to Mashable's request for comment about the casting report, but Rogen is no stranger to working with Sony. He previously starred in the studio's This Is the End last year and will star in The Interview in December.

This is the seventh film Sorkin has written, including The Social Network in 2010. It will be told in three sequences focusing on Apple's launches of the iPod, NeXT and the Macintosh.

The movie — like Open Roads' Jobs flick starring Ashton Kutcher as as the titular character and Josh Gad as Wozniak did — will explore Jobs' life, particularly his relationships.

"It’s not a biopic; it’s not the story of Steve Jobs — it’s something much different than that," Sorkin said in April. "He’s a fascinating guy — part hero, part antihero... He’s a fascinating guy surrounded by fascinating people, and he had very interesting relationships with the people in his life."

Steve Jobs passed away on Oct. 5, 2011. Sorkin confirmed this year that he finished the film's script.

"It will be up to the audience whether it’s good or not," Sorkin said. "But Steve Jobs is one of the very few times I ended up writing what I set out to write. It’s an incredibly satisfying feeling."

Wozniak was critical of Gad's portrayal ("personalities are very wrong although mine is closer"), so it will be fascinating to see what he has to say about Rogen.

Steve Jobs introduces the Macintosh to the world. Computing would never be the same.

Ridley Scott's famous "1984" commercial for the original Macintosh continues to find imitators, even today. In 2011, Motorola attempted to spoof the classic ad in a promotional spot for its Xoom tablet.

When Bill Gates appeared on-screen at Macworld Boston in 1997, the audience reacted with boos and hisses. Still, the decision to partner with Microsoft and have Microsoft commit to producing software for the Macintosh was one of the most shrewd -- and likely one of the most intelligent -- decisions that Jobs made upon his return to Apple.

Although many incorrectly believe that Microsoft "bought" Apple in 1997, the reality is, without Microsoft's investment and commitment to developing Macintosh software, the company may have had a more difficult time getting its next line of products to the market.

The iMac helped set the standard for the modern Apple even as we know it today. Designed by Jonathan Ive, the iMac was sleek, modern and affordable. This was not the Macintosh of the early to mid 1990s, it was something new.

With the iMac, Apple became cool. We can vividly remember looking at the egg-shaped all-in-one design with the hockey puck mouse and famous lack of a floppy drive and being transfixed. The iMac marked the beginning of Apple 2.0.

Nearly 10 years ago, Apple debuted the iPod. Famously ridiculed and dismissed by Slashdot, it would be several years before the device would become iconic, and in the process, change Apple fundamentally as a company.

The premise behind the iPod was simple: 1,000 songs in your pocket. Its the execution that set the device apart from everyone else.

In 2003, Apple flipped the switch again, with the launch of the iTunes Music Store. In a post-Napster industry, most were skeptical that iTunes could drive music sales. Eight years later, iTunes is the number one music retailer by a large margin.

Ten years on, the iPod is getting long in the tooth, but it still remains the leader in its product category.

After the iPod started to achieve massive success in 2003 and 2004, the rumors of an iPod phone started to swirl.

The first attempt to bring a product like that to the market was in the form of Motorola's Rokr. The Rokr tried to capitalize on the success of the Razr, while also adding compatibility with iTunes.

Still, the device was a dud. You can see Steve Jobs's frustration with the device in this demonstration. The Rokr was an example that only Apple could build an Apple product.

Steve Jobs's commencement speech at Stanford University in 2006 is one of our favorite Jobs moments. It's riveting, inspirational and every bit as good as any Apple product keynote.

All hail the Jesus Phone. The iPhone changed the mobile industry. Full stop. The mobile world and ecosystem that we know today would not exist in the same way that it does now without the iPhone.

The iPhone also changed Apple as a company and helped further cement Jobs's place in history.

Steve Jobs and Bill Gates are two of the most powerful and influential men of our times. Seeing them together at D5, just ahead of the iPhone's U.S. launch, was amazing.

In January 2010, Apple changed the game again with the iPad. Like the iPod and iPhone, the critics dismissed it and predicted its failure. Its success has outpaced nearly every other technology product launch in history and is having a seismic impact on education, publishing, media consumption and computing in general.

The PC era might not be over, but I'm willing to bet that the computer I use every day in 10 years will have a lot more in common with the iPad than the MacBook Pro.