A video that appears to a show a bird pooping on Russian President Vladimir Putin’s suit during a speech last week is fake.

The video–uploaded to YouTube–is going viral. A few media outlets appear to have been tricked by it. The video is titled: “Bird pooped on Putin at opening of WWI monument.”

The Washington Post and TIME magazine both posted the video, apparently believing it.

The Post issued a correction, saying that “a bird did not defecate on Russian President Vladimir Putin during a speech on Friday. The video appears to have been a hoax.”

TIME wrote: “A video shared online made it seem as if Vladimir Putin got some unwelcome love from a feathered friend Sunday during a speech unveiling a monument to Russians who served in World War I.”

It later updated the post, saying that “The Independent reveals this video to have been falsely doctored to show a bird defecating on Putin.”

The Associated Press update:

Obama, Putin discuss Ukraine, missile treaty

WASHINGTON (AP) — Capping a week of aggressive action against Russia, President Barack Obama pressed Russian President Vladimir Putin Friday for a diplomatic path out of Ukraine’s struggle with Moscow-backed pro-Russian separatists. Putin countered by calling U.S. and European economic sanctions against Russia counterproductive.

Obama later conceded that pressure from recently imposed U.S. and European measures to squeeze the Russian economy “hasn’t resolved the problem yet.”

In an Obama-initiated phone call Friday, the U.S. president also raised concerns that Russia violated a key Cold War era nuclear weapons treaty, the White House said. In a letter this week from Obama to Putin and in an administration report released this week, the United States said Russia violated a 1987 treaty that bans all U.S. and Russian missiles of intermediate range, meaning those that can travel between about 300 miles and about 3,400 miles.

Putin in the call said the sanctions seriously damage bilateral cooperation and general global stability, according to a Kremlin report on the call.

It was the first conversation between the leaders since the U.S. and Europe slapped the new round of economic sanctions on Russia and since Obama’s letter claiming a breach in the missile treaty.

“I indicated to him, just as we will do what we say we do in terms of sanctions, we’ll also do what we say in terms of wanting to resolve this issue diplomatically if he takes a different position,” Obama told reporters later.

The Kremlin said both Obama and Putin underscored the urgency for bringing an end to fighting in eastern Ukraine and spoke positively about a meeting that took place the day before in Minsk, Belarus, among members of a diplomatic “contact group” pursuing an end to hostilities. That group includes representatives from Russia, Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.