Macaulay Culkin is not dead, despite another fast-spreading Internet hoax indicating the Home Alone star's demise ... for the second time this year alone.

The troubled and sometimes reclusive actor, 34, who at one point was reportedly in the throes of heroin addiction and appeared gaunt, is alive and well.

Macaulay Culkin Alive!
According to the latest Macaulay Culkin death hoax, he was found dead in his Manhattan apartment. Facebook and Twitter users quickly bought in.

With fans linking to a story on something called MSNBC (dot) website (dot) com - obviously not the real NBC, MSN or MSNBC - the story went viral.

According to the unconfirmed and unsubstantiated reports, Culkin was found dead after police responded to a wellness check requested by a family member:

"At least one occupant of the Manhattan apartment confirmed the apartment belongs to Culkin but police have not confirmed the man’s identity at this time."

Det. James Patterson, allegedly of the Manhattan Police Department, said:

“The apartment was exceptionally clean and we found no signs of abuse or foul-play so we are depending on the coroner to make a final ruling of what happened.”

The actor turned musician was also reported dead back in April, with Facebook users mourning his alleged death and even a memorial page popping up.

Though reps for the actor denied the April reports, they have not yet spoken out on the latest hoax claiming that Culkin is dead ... but he's still not.

He was seen with his band, The Pizza Underground, last night (see above).

Celebrity Death Hoaxes: Stars the Internet Fake-Killed
Lil Wayne
1. Lil Wayne
Lil Wayne has been the subject of more than one death hoax over the years ... and more than one actual near-death experience. So it's believalble.
Culkin has become much lower profile as an adult than when he was one of the biggest child stars of all time, so it's easy to see how one would believe this.

Mila Kunis' longtime boyfriend is doing perfectly fine for himself, though, despite pranksters with no consciences attempting to spread such nasty rumors.


Add this to the list of celebrities the Internet has fake killed over the years.