A Catholic priest from Massachusetts had been dead for 48 minutes before he was miraculously resuscitated. However, it is his description about God that is bound to spark a hot debate about the almighty.

Father John Michael O’Neal was officially declared dead for more than 48 minutes, but medics were able to miraculously re-start his heart. According to the 71-year-old man of God, the supreme entity isn’t a man, as is popularly assumed and believed. Father O’Neal claims he met God during the brief time he was officially dead and God is a woman.

The catholic father claims God is a warm and comforting motherly figure. The revelation will undoubtedly have a profound bearing on the teachings of Christianity, which firmly believes and even implies that God is a male figure who has watched over us with love and devotion. Though the love and devotion part is corroborated by Father O’Neal, he differs from the church’s teachings about the gender of God.

Father John Micheal O’neal had the chance to meet with the divine when he was rushed to a hospital late last month owing to a massive heart attack. However, Father O’Neal was declared clinically dead shortly after his arrival. Not one to give up hope so easily, doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital kept the blood flowing to his brain with the aid of a high-tech machine called LUCAS 2.

While the blood flowed with the help of modern science, doctors worked tirelessly to unblock vital arteries and return his heart to a normal rhythm. Consistent with near-death experiences, Father O’Neal entered heaven through a gate made of bright light and encountered God. However, instead of the all-mighty father figure, the priest claims he was warmly greeted by a motherly figure. Father O’Neal describes the divine entity as “mother-like ‘Being of Light.'”

“Her presence was both overwhelming and comforting. She had a soft and soothing voice and her presence was as reassuring as a mother’s embrace. The fact that God is a Holy Mother instead of a Holy Father doesn’t disturb me, she is everything I hoped she would be and even more!”

As expected, the priest’s claims about the gender of God has created quite a stir amidst devote Catholics. The intense discussion between the catholic clergy of the archdiocese about the “experience” of the father and the ramifications of his revelations persuaded the Archbishop to summon a press conference to try and calm the rumors.

Though his superiors have disapproved, Father O’Neal says that he will continue dedicating his life to God and spread the word of the “Holy Mother.”

“I wish to continue preaching. I would like to share my new knowledge of the Mother, the Son and the Holy Ghost with all Catholics and even all Christians. God is great and almighty despite being a woman…”

Given the potency of Father O’Neal’s alleged experience, it is quite likely he might face some resistance and criticism. However, he is prepared, assures the priest.

[Image Credit | India Today]