Eran Cicurel, an editor at Voice of Israel, has quoted YPG fighters familiar with the situation in Kobani, saying that Gill Rosenberg was not captured by IS. Cicurel's claims contradict IS claims, which made announcements on IS-affiliated websites Samoach al-Islam, al-Platform Media, and Twitter that Rosenberg had been captured. Earlier in the day, IS media sources even alleged that a video was coming soon. Considering the scale of yesterday's IS advance, the story appeared plausible. Close friends, comrades, and supporters also voiced credible concern on Rosenberg's Facebook page. The YPG fighters noted, through Cicurel, that Rosenberg was not in the city of Hoban at the time that IS claims she was abducted. They also called the story "mere propaganda". While not a confirmation per se, Cicurel's claims, in addition to circumstantial evidence, have made the story of Rosenberg's capture implausible. Established Israeli sources exclusively ran the story purporting to be primary sources of reporting Rosenberg's capture. The Haaretz Israeli News, the Times of Israel, the Jerusalem Post, and Ynet News almost immediately published similar reports, while media outside Israel have either not reported on the story or quoted the Israeli media. It is illegal for an Israeli citizen to travel to an Israeli-declared hostile state, including Iraq and Syria, for any reason including business and media reporting. Rosenberg, age 31, has become infamous in recent months for joining YPG fighters in Kobani despite the illegality of her endeavor. In the past 24 hours, an IS advance pushed the YPG back on four fronts, including the northern side that borders Turkey. However, the YPG has mitigated many IS gains, due to US airstrikes and the arrival of Turkish forces sealing the border to the north. Despite the new information, little is still publicly known about Rosenberg's status at this time. Pro-IS sources are still claiming that she is captured, while other sources are staying quiet. A link will be added in the comments if the story is officially confirmed or denied. Pictures of Rosenberg (Not a repost! The article is completely original content. These images are merely appended for informational purposes) Kobani map November 28 (credits to @deSyracuse) Kobani map late November 29 (credits to @macroarch). Note: Some IS gains have been pushed back, but claims of a total reversal are untrue.