Description: Fake news / Satire
Circulating since: Feb. 2015
Status: False (see details below)

Example #1: 
Via WorldNewsDailyReport.com, Feb. 4, 2015:

CATHOLIC PRIEST WHO DIED FOR 48 MINUTES CLAIMS THAT GOD IS A WOMAN

February 4th, 2015 | by Barbara Johnson

Boston| A Catholic priest from Massachussetts was officially dead for more than 48 minutes before medics were able to miraculously re-start his heart. During that time, Father John Micheal O’neal claims he went to heaven and met God, which he describes as a warm and comforting motherly figure.

The 71-year old cleric was rushed to the hospital on January 29 after a major heart attack, but was declared clinically dead soon after his arrival. With the aid of a high-tech machine called LUCAS 2, that kept the blood flowing to his brain, doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital managed to unblock vital arteries and return his heart to a normal rhythm.

Ads
Catholic Priest Vocation
vocations.companionscross.org
How to become a Priest. Info on The Companions of the Cross
Miracle Prayer Requests
www.christianprayercenter.com
Need Prayers? Thousands Will Pray For You.
Funeral Insurance Online
canada-life-insurance.org/Funeral
Affordable Funeral Insurance Plans. Apply up to Age 85. Free Quotes.
The Bible
Of Christian Church
Catholic Priest
Bible Websites
The Catholic Church On

Example #2:
Via Metro.co.uk, Feb. 22, 2015 (article subsequently revised):

Priest who died for 48 minutes says he met God and she’s a woman

We’ve all seen the traditional depictions of God as a cloud-dwelling figure with a flowing mane and a white beard.

But now, a Catholic priest in America has apparently claimed that God is female, after he officially died for 48 minutes following a massive heart attack.

According to an unverified report, Father John Micheal O’Neal, 71, briefly went to heaven and met a ‘warm and comforting’ motherly figure as doctors battled to save his life at Massachusetts General Hospital.


Analysis: Pure fiction. There is no "Father John Michael O'Neal" in the Archdiocese of Boston. So says a spokesperson for the Archbishop himself, Cardinal Sean P. O'Malley.

"I believe this could be a hoax story," the spokesperson told a writer for the website Metro.co.uk, which had earlier repeated the false story above without verification. The initial report was also duplicated uncritically on dozens of other blogs and websites.

Ads
Greek Marriage
www.eligiblegreeks.com
Find Your Greek Soul Mate Today Search Photos, Email, Chat & More
Start Download
rar-for-mac.com
File size: 487KB. License: Free. High Quality & Easy to Use
It wouldn't have been difficult to debunk the story when it first appeared, if anyone had cared to do so. It originated on the satirical website World News Daily Report, after all, which states on its disclaimer page:

All characters appearing in the articles in this website – even those based on real people – are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any persons, living, dead, or undead is purely a miracle.

Not only does it revolve around a priest who doesn't exist, the story further claims that Archbishop O'Malley, a real official of the Church, issued a public disavowal of the priest's alleged statements. There is no public record of such a disavowal.

Among the preposterous items that have appeared on World News Daily Report over the past year or so are "news stories" claiming that a 600-pound woman gave birth to a 40-pound baby, a Japanese whaling crew was eaten alive by killer whales, and a Chinese miner found alive after being trapped underground for 17 years.