In case you missed it, Vogue Magazine, one of the most glamorous institutions in the country has been dealing with the least glamorous issue ever: a rat infestation.

The rodents have literally been living it up in Vogue’s new luxurious digs at 1 World Trade Center in New York City. Reportedly, the rats took up residence in Anna Wintour’s office and have moved into the magazine’s world famous accessories closet.

Gawker reported that the critters have made Vogue’s infamous editor-in-chief scared to enter her office without taking precautions first.

“The infestation is so acute, one source said, that the fashion title’s editor-in-chief, Anna Wintour, recently issued a standing order: Staffers must ensure that her personal office is rat-free before she enters it…”

A source told People that: “the girls that work there see the droppings everywhere. It’s nasty.”

The rats have also reportedly eaten holes into shoe boxes and left droppings on the floor of the accessories closet. It’s believed that Vogue’s newest office mates made their way into the office through the ventilation system.

Anna Wintours New Office in One WTC via Hamish Bowles Instagram

 (Photo via Instagram)

Anna Wintour’s new office. 

Call me petty, but after this headline made me gag, it also made me laugh hysterically. I know that vermin infestations are no laughing matter but there are just too many hilarious visuals that this headline conjures up.

I just keep picturing rats happily nibbling on Michael Kors dresses as if they’re camembert cheese. I also can’t get the image of Anna Wintour frantically directing Vogue staffers who are on their hands and knees to verify that her office is rat-free. It seems like something from an episode of Ugly Betty or a scene from the sequel to The Devil Wears Prada (which I would totally watch by the way).

Vogue Staffers Packing Up Via Vogue Instagram

(Photo via Instagram)

If you’re worried about how Anna will deal with this crisis, never fear. Apparently Ms. Wintour is calling in the Olivia Pope of rat exterminators.

A source allegedly told Radar.com the following:

“Anna isn’t amused and top pest control experts have been hired to get the problem dealt with quickly.”

I guess the situation is getting handled. In the meantime, I’ll just keep picturing rats chasing models around the halls of Vogue’s new offices.

You can reach this post's author, J. Assita Camara, on twitter.