Fourteen more police arrested as forensic investigators find no trace of students missing since violent confrontation in Guerrero

Authorities testing remains found in nine mass graves in southern Mexico say they are yet to find any trace of 43 students who disappeared after a confrontation with police.

None was among 28 bodies, some badly burned, that were unearthed a week after the 26 September attack, said the attorney general, Jesús Murillo Karam.

Forensic investigators continued to test other remains and announced the discovery of a 10th mass grave on Tuesday. An additional 14 police officers had been arrested and confessed to participating in the disappearance, Karam said, bringing the total number of detainees to 50.

The 14 are from the police force of Cocula, a town neighbouring Iguala, where the confrontation took place in the southern state of Guerrero. Both the mayor and police chief of Iguala are fugitives and accused of links to the local drug cartel, Guerrero Unidos, believed to have worked with police in taking the students. The gang controls drug routes in Guerrero and Morelos states.

Karam said officials had yet to identify the masterminds or a motive in the attack but the collusion might have gone beyond just one town. “There’s a connection. We will determine if it was coordination or subordination, but it’s clear to me that they were working together,” he said of police and drug traffickers in the area.

Police opened fire on about 100 teaching college students who had hijacked buses to return to campus after arriving in Iguala

Six people were killed, 25 wounded and dozens of students rounded up by police. There has been no sign of the missing in nearly three weeks, despite investigators combing the clandestine burial sites outside Iguala, where drug cartels are believed to dump their enemies.

On Tuesday, the Guerrero governor, Angel Aguirre, said many of the bodies at the first site appeared to have been buried for some time, suggesting they belonged to earlier victims of criminal gangs.

“Some of them are not recent, some are from months ago,” Aguirre told MVS radio.

One forensic expert, who works with federal investigators, said identification was an arduous, time-consuming process. Charred remains like those recovered at the first mass graves could leave very little DNA for testing.

Hundreds of teachers, students and relatives of the missing marched peacefully to the centre of the state capital, Chilpancingo, on Tuesday after a night of angry protests and vandalism that badly damaged the state capital building.

They lined up in silence as organisers handed out white flowers. Some carried candles with a sprawling billboard offering a 1m peso (£47,000) reward for information.

On Monday, protesters demanding to know the whereabouts of the missing smashed windows at the state capital building complex in Chilpancingo, 132 miles south of Mexico City, and set fire to buildings.