American photojournalist James Wright Foley has been beheaded by ISIS forces

Foley has been missing since Thanksgiving 2012 while working in Syria

ISIS posted the extremely graphic video 'A Message to America' to social media

Foley speaks to camera before his death and labels the US his killers

Apparently coerced by his captors into speaking against his country

A masked and robed member of ISIS speaking English in what is thought to be a British accent addresses the camera too

After the execution of Foley, the ISIS member says that missing American journalist Steven Joel Sotloff will be killed next

A man identified as Sotloff in a caption on the video is then paraded in front of the camera

Beheading comes one day after ISIS threat to America that 'we will drown all you in blood' following the US-aided Kurdish recapture of the Mosul Dam

Horrific video of American freelance photo-journalist James Wright Foley, 40, being beheaded by ISIS in revenge for US airstrikes in Iraq was posted to the internet Tuesday afternoon.
Foley, has been missing since November, 2012, after being taken hostage at gunpoint while reporting from Taftanaz, in northern Syria, for the agency, GlobalPost. 
ISIS posted the extremely graphic video shot at an unknown location, titled 'A Message to America' to social media as proof of their barbaric actions.
In a chilling warning at the end of grisly film, the executioner, who has what sounds like a British accent, paraded another American journalist, Steven Joel Sotloff, who went missing in August 2013, saying: 'The life of this American citizen, Obama, depends on your next decision.'

The video emerged as President Barack Obama was returning from the White House to his Martha's Vineyard vacation. White House National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden says the administration has seen the video. 
She says that if it’s deemed genuine by the intelligence community, the US would be ‘appalled by the brutal murder of an innocent American journalist.’
His family issued a statement through their Free James Foley organization, which has been working to free the journalist.
'We know that many of you are looking for confirmation or answers. Please be patient until we all have more information, and keep the Foleys in your thoughts and prayers.'
As the disturbing video infolds, Foley, dressed in orange and on his knees, is unflinching to the end as he addresses the camera before his death. 
It appears the journalist has been coerced into blaming the United States by his brutal captors. His voice strong, but struggling at times to swallow as he battles against fear, he brands the US government his real killers as a man in black robes armed with a gun stands over him.

Foley who has been missing for almost two years also leaves a haunting message for his brother, John, who is thought to be in the US Air Force. 
Referring to US airstrikes launched nearly two weeks ago in Iraq, Foley says: ‘I died that day, John, when your colleagues dropped that bomb on these people. They signed my death certificate’ 
As the appalling video unfolds, Foley blames the 'complacency and criminality' of the United States for his impending death.
In his final, awful message to the world, Foley pleads for more time, to have seen his family who fought for his freedom for two years again. In a final insult from his vengeful executioners, Foley is made to deny his birthright as a citizen of the United States.
'I wish I had more time, I wish I could have the hope of freedom and see my family once again, but that ship has sailed. I guess all in all, I wish I wasn’t American,' says Foley before his tragic death.

The reporter then stops speaking and his executioner steps forward. The masked, armed and black robe-clad man speaks in English in what is thought to be a British accent.
Members of the UK's Associated Press pegged the accent to the South East of England and London, while others have claimed the accent resembles one from North Africa.
‘This is James Wright Foley, an American citizen of your country. As a government you have been at the forefront of the aggression towards the Islamic State,' begins the executioner.
'You have plotted against us and gone far out of your way to find reasons to interfere in our affairs. Today, your military airforce is attacking us daily in Iraq. 
'Your strikes have caused casualties amongst Muslims. You are no longer fighting an insurgency. 
'We are an Islamic Army and a state that has been accepted by a large number of Muslims worldwide. 
'So effectively, any aggression toward the Islamic State is aggression towards Muslims from all walks of life who have accepted the Islamic Caliphate as their leadership.
'So any attempt by you, Obama, to deny the Muslims their rights of living in safety under the Islamic Caliphate will result in the bloodshed of your people.’

At this point the executioner beheads Foley, who is kneeling bravely with hands tied behind his back. His body is displayed with the head atop the body.
Then in another chilling warning, the executioner holds another man, on his kness with his hands tied behind his back, by the scruff of the neck. A caption claims it is Steven Joel Soltoff.
The executioner says: ‘The life of this American citizen, Obama, depends on your next decision.’
GlobalPost's co-founder, Charles Sennott told ABC News that there is 'no reliable proof that this execution is authentic.
'If the video is verified, it is just unfathomable darkness to think that a life as bright as Jim Foley's ended that way,' Sennott said. 'He was an experienced and fearless journalist who believed deeply in reporting from the frontlines.' 
The gruesome video clip opens with President Obama announcing the commencement of American air strikes on Iraq against ISIS.
'Today I authorized two operations in Iraq: targeted airstrikes to protect our American personnel, and a humanitarian effort to help save thousands of Iraqi civilians who are trapped on a mountain without food and water, and facing almost certain death,' says Obama in a statement dated, August 7.
ISIS, which has claimed control of most of northern Iraq and parts of Syria is threatening to kill Time journalist Joel Sotloff next unless President Obama ceases attacks on the terror group. 
Sotloff has been missing since the middle of 2013 and last tweeted on August 3rd, 2013.
According to his Twitter account he was in Libya at the time of his disappearance.
Foley’s family including parents John and Diane, of Rochester, New Hampshire, have publicly appealed for their son’s release over the past two years.
Foley was previously held captive by pro-Gaddafi forces in Libya.

The barbaric beheading comes one day after ISIS militants threatened to attack U.S. targets 'in any place' in a chilling video showing a blood-spattered Star and Stripes next to the jihadist flag with the message in English: 'We will drown all of you in blood'.
Unlike Al Qaeda, the Islamic State has so far focused on seizing land in Iraq and Syria for its self-proclaimed caliphate, not spectacular attacks on Western targets.
It came as President Barack Obama on Monday announced that Kurdish peshmerga troops, supported by U.S. jets, had recaptured the strategically important Mosul Dam, hailing the offensive as a 'major step forward'.
The dam had given the militants control over power and water supplies, and any breach of the vulnerable structure would have threatened thousands of lives.
As the U.S. military strikes the Islamic State group in Iraq, Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces also stepped up their own campaign against militant strongholds in Syria.

Foley, who lived Boston, was previously held captive by pro-Gaddafi forces for six weeks in Libya in 2011.
He was released after 45 days following an international campaign by his friends and family.
The Foley family from Rochester, New Hampshire, had hoped keeping silent could aid his release from Syria, but early last year decided to appeal directly to his kidnappers, increasingly concerned as they grew increasingly concerned.
'We want Jim to come safely home, or at least we need to speak with him to know he's okay,' his father John Foley said in a statement in January 2013 as the Foley family launched a website to publicize his disappearance, 'Jim is an objective journalist and we appeal for the release of Jim unharmed. To the people who have Jim, please contact us so we can work together toward his release.'
James, or Jim as he is known to his family and friends, is one of five children to parents John and Diane Foley. 
Foley, who studied at Marquette University, Milwaukee, and later studied journalism at Northwestern University, Chicago, has also reported on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Prior to a career in journalism, he taught reading and writing skills to convicted felons at Cook County Jail in Chicago.