As a series of ex-soldiers come forward to criticize Brian Williams for his ‘stolen valor’ Iraq war story, it is being reported that top level executives at NBC News had known the tale was fake and had been begging the newscaster for years to stop repeating it.

Williams is at a center of a media firestorm after he was found out for embellishing an old war story about being in a helicopter hit by a grenade during the Iraq war in 2003.

The newscaster acted swiftly on Wednesday night to attempt to diffuse the situation by apologizing during his Nightly News show, but since then a series of ex-soldiers have come forward to criticize Williams ‘half-hearted’ apology.

Brian Williams is at the center of a media firestorm over his embellished war story and now it transpires that NBC News executives - and Tom Brokaw - had known for years that the story was false

To make matters worse there are also now reports that senior executives at NBC News, including legendary anchor Tom Brokaw who Williams replaced in 2004, knew the story was false.

‘Tom Brokaw and [former NBC News President] Steve Capus knew this was a false story for a long time and have been extremely uncomfortable with it,’ an insider told the New York Post.

Now Brokaw, 74, has had it and wants Williams fired, the Post claims.

Senior executives had in the past asked Williams to stop telling the story in public, reports Variety.

Despite his credibility being called into question, Williams still took the anchor’s seat for his Nightly News broadcast on Thursday evening but unlike on Wednesday he didn't address the issue during the broadcast.

'Brokaw wants Williams’ head on a platter. He is making a lot of noise at NBC that a lesser journalist or producer would have been immediately fired or suspended for a false report,' said the source.

Retraction: NBC anchor Brian Williams has been forced to admit that he wasn't aboard a helicopter hit and forced down by enemy fire during the 2003 invasion of Iraq, as he claimed in a broadcast on Friday, pictured

However a separate source says that isn't going to happen. 'He is not going to be suspended or reprimanded in any way. He has the full support of NBC News,' said the source.

On Thursday the pilot of the army chinook that was attacked by rocket-propelled grenades told the Omaha World-Herald that he had contacted NBC News not long after their initial broadcast. Don Helus said he saw Williams’ initial report not long after its original broadcast after someone emailed him a clip.

NBC’s Tom Brokaw introduced the report with the words: 'Our colleague Brian Williams is back in Kuwait City tonight after a close call in the skies over Iraq.'

Helus said he contacted Williams’ producer and asked for a retraction, but didn't get a reply.

'My crew was a little upset about that - somebody trying to make a claim to inflate their career,' Helus said.

Williams was forced to apologize on air and on Facebook on Wednesday and admit that he wasn't aboard a helicopter that was hit, but had been traveling in a separate aircraft more than half an hour behind that landed without incident.

'He was actually on my aircraft and we came in behind [the other helicopter] about 30-45 minutes later,' Sgt. 1st Class Joseph Miller, the flight engineer on the helicopter that carried the journalists, wrote on Facebook after NBC shared a link to Williams' story.

Williams pictured in Iraq in 2003 with Command Sgt. Major Tim Terpack: In a lengthy Facebook post on Wednesday, Williams admitted his mistake and blamed the 'fog of memory over 12 years' for his error

'He had the audacity to tell me the whole thing was like 'Saving Private Ryan' and that the whole army would be out looking for him. I called him an idiot in front of his camera crew and he didn't come back to my bird for the next three days.'

Pate Butler, another soldier, confirmed on Facebook: 'He flew with the Savannah birds in a totally different flight. Never was shot at. That aircraft was out of Germany and we were all in that flight.'

Lance Reynolds, another soldier who had actually been on the 159th Aviation Regiment's Chinook that was hit, also lashed out at Williams on Facebook.

'Sorry dude, I don't remember you being on my aircraft,' he wrote. 'I do remember you walking up about an hour after we had landed to ask me what had happened.

'Then I remember you guys taking back off in a different flight of Chinooks from another unit and heading to Kuwait to report your 'war story' to the Nightly News.

'The whole time we were still stuck in Iraq trying to repair the aircraft and pulling our own Security.'

Speaking to Stars and Stripes, Reynolds recalled how he had been aboard the helicopter when it was hit by two rocket-propelled grenades and small arms fire.

The damaged Chinook made a rolling landing at an Iraqi airfield, skidded off the runway and came to a stop in the desert. Reynolds and other crew members were unhurt.

Called out: Lance Reynolds, left, and Pate Butler, right, who were both part of the crews flying that day, said that Williams had not been aboard their damaged helicopter and expressed their anger at his lies

Anger: The day after Williams' report, Reynolds responded to the story on NBC NIghtly News' Facebook and said that he remembered things rather differently

Another man, Joseph Miller, who claimed to be on Williams' aircraft at the time said he had been 'calling him out on this for a long time with no response'

'It was something personal for us that was kind of life-changing for me,' he told Stars and Stripes.

'I know how lucky I was to survive it. It felt like a personal experience that someone else wanted to participate in and didn't deserve to participate in.'

When Williams approached him and took photos of the damaged aircraft, Reynolds said he dismissed the level of danger because he didn't want his wife to see a news report about it.

'I wanted to tell her myself everything was all right before she got news of this happening,' he said.

Another man on the downed aircraft, Mike O'Keeffe, said he had long been bothered by Williams' false claims.

'Over the years it faded,' he said, 'and then to see it last week it was - I can't believe he is still telling this false narrative.'

O'Keeffe added that he was satisfied with Williams' apology and didn't want to push the issue any further or 'kick the guy when he is down'.

Other soldiers have accused Williams of being misleading in his apology and continuing to imply details that are false.

Denial: Williams denied that he was 'trying to steal anyone's valor' in a message he posted on Wednesday

Since the 2003 incident, Williams' Chinook story has been recounted countless times and gradually the reporter's role seems to have grown.

NBC reported the incident on March 26, 2003, with the headline, 'Target Iraq: Helicopter NBC's Brian Williams Was Riding In Comes Under Fire.'

However when the incident was reported the next day by the New York Daily News it stated that a 'chopper was hit and forced to land. Then the one carrying Williams landed.'

Three days later USA Today carried a similar report that stated: 'NBC's Brian Williams was stranded in the Iraqi desert for three days after a Chinook helicopter ahead of his was attacked by a man who fired a rocket-propelled grenade.

'The grenade just missed, but it forced the group to make an emergency landing. Luckily, a U.S. tank platoon was there and surrounded the helicopters, killing four Iraqis.'

In a 2007 entry from his blog Williams recounts how he was part of a 'flotilla of four twin-rotor Chinook helicopters'.

'Some men on the ground fired an RPG through the tail rotor of the chopper flying in front of ours.

'There was small arms fire. … All four choppers dropped their heavy loads and landed quickly and hard on the desert floor,' he recalled.

By the next year Williams was claiming on his blog that 'all four of our low-flying Chinooks took fire.'

'The Chinook helicopter flying in front of ours (from the 101st Airborne) took an RPG to the rear rotor, as all four of our low-flying Chinooks took fire,' he wrote.

'We were forced down and stayed down -- for the better (or worse) part of 3 days and 2 nights.'

The tale takes a more dramatic twist during a 2013 appearance on The Late Show With David Letterman. By now Williams is recalling that two helicopter were hit - including his.

'Two of our four helicopters were hit by ground fire including the one I was in,' he told Letterman.

Then during his report on January 30, Williams once again told an inaccurate version of events so that now 'the helicopter we were travelling in was forced down after being hit by an RPG.'

For example, army flight crews told Stars and Stripes that Williams implied he was flying with the same company that the downed helicopter belonged to - but he was actually flying with a different company in a different direction, and only linked to the unit by radio.

He also suggested that his aircraft was forced to land because of the attack, but soldiers said it was landed due to deteriorating weather conditions.

After Williams' apology, there were cries for him to be terminated.

'Brian Williams has to go,' Brent Bozell, the founder and president of the Media Research Center, wrote on Twitter. 'NBC's credibility is completely shot.'

The Nightly News anchor has often repeated the war story over the past 12 years about how the aircraft he was on was forced down by enemy fire.

He repeated his old war story on Friday when he presented a segment about a public tribute at a hockey game in New York for Command Sgt. Major Tim Terpack, a retired soldier who had provided security for the grounded helicopters.

During the report, Williams went further and said that the aircraft he was on had actually been hit - and the soldiers expressed their anger on Facebook afterwards.

'I would not have chosen to make this mistake,' Williams told Stars and Stripes. 'I don't know what screwed up in my mind that caused me to conflate one aircraft with another.'

On the Nightly News broadcast on Wednesday evening, Williams told viewers that his mistake was a 'bungled attempt' to honor a soldier who had helped protect him.

'I made a mistake in recalling the events of 12 years ago. I want to apologize,' he said.

In a lengthy Facebook post on Wednesday Williams admitted his mistake and blamed the 'fog of memory over 12 years' for his error.

'I feel terrible about making this mistake, especially since I found my OWN WRITING about the incident from back in '08, and I was indeed on the Chinook behind the bird that took the RPG in the tail housing just above the ramp,' he wrote.

'Because I have no desire to fictionalize my experience (we all saw it happened the first time) and no need to dramatize events as they actually happened, I think the constant viewing of the video showing us inspecting the impact area - and the fog of memory over 12 years - made me conflate the two, and I apologize.'

Williams went on to strenuously deny that he was 'trying to steal anyone's valor'.

'I was and remain a civilian journalist covering the stories of those who volunteered for duty. This was simply an attempt to thank Tim, our military and Veterans everywhere -- those who have served while I did not.'

All the credit: After his apology, Twitter users joked about Williams inserting himself in other historic events

One of the top trending topics on Twitter on Wednesday night was #BrianWilliamsMisremembers.

'#BrianWilliamsMisremembers and then I said look Woodward you and Bernstein are in way over your head,time to follow a real man..lets do this,' tweeted one person.

'And I just knew we could make a better portable music player. Called it the iPod.' #BrianWilliamsMisremembers,' wrote another.

Since the 2003 incident, Williams' Chinook story has been recounted countless times and gradually the reporter's role seems to have grown.

NBC reported the incident on March 26, 2003, with the headline, 'Target Iraq: Helicopter NBC's Brian Williams Was Riding In Comes Under Fire.'

However when the incident was reported the next day by the New York Daily News it stated that a 'chopper was hit and forced to land. Then the one carrying Williams landed.'

Original report: In 2003, Williams reported that another helicopter had been shot at - not the one he was on

Damage: The original report shows the damage suffered by the Chinook after it was shot at in 2003

Three days later USA Today carried a similar report that stated: 'NBC's Brian Williams was stranded in the Iraqi desert for three days after a Chinook helicopter ahead of his was attacked by a man who fired a rocket-propelled grenade.

'The grenade just missed, but it forced the group to make an emergency landing. Luckily, a U.S. tank platoon was there and surrounded the helicopters, killing four Iraqis.'

In a 2007 entry from his blog Williams recounts how he was part of a 'flotilla of four twin-rotor Chinook helicopters'.

'Some men on the ground fired an RPG through the tail rotor of the chopper flying in front of ours.

'There was small arms fire. … All four choppers dropped their heavy loads and landed quickly and hard on the desert floor,' he recalled.

By the next year Williams was claiming on his blog that 'all four of our low-flying Chinooks took fire.'

'The Chinook helicopter flying in front of ours (from the 101st Airborne) took an RPG to the rear rotor, as all four of our low-flying Chinooks took fire,' he wrote.

Williams appeared nonplussed about the scandal on Wednesday evening as he enjoyed a New York Rangers game with his good friend Tom Hanks

Actor Tom Hanks and Brian Williams pictured together at the Boston Bruins game at Madison Square Garden

The two shared plenty of laughs and thrills at the game only hours after Williams apologized for his 'mistake'

'We were forced down and stayed down -- for the better (or worse) part of 3 days and 2 nights.'

The tale takes a more dramatic twist during a 2013 appearance on The Late Show With David Letterman. By now Williams is recalling that two helicopter were hit - including his.

'Two of our four helicopters were hit by ground fire including the one I was in,' he told Letterman.

Then during his report on January 30, Williams once again told an inaccurate version of events so that now 'the helicopter we were travelling in was forced down after being hit by an RPG.'

Williams has anchored NBC Nightly News - the nation's highest rated news program - since December 2004 when he replaced Tom Brokaw.

His reporting from inside the New Orleans Superdome in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina the next year helped earn NBC a Peabody Award.

DailyMail.com has reached out to NBC News for comment.