Officials are using 'very sophisticated voice-identification technology' to home in on the masked extremist who carried out the murder of the American journalist, said Peter Westmacott, British ambassador to the U.S. A prime suspect is Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, a 23-year-old London rapper who left his family a year ago to fight with the Islamist fanatics.

Authorities are close to identifying the black-clad Islamic State jihadist who beheaded an American journalist — and a prime suspect is a British-born rapper who left his parent’s million-dollar home last year to fight in Syria.

The British ambassador to the United States, Peter Westmacott, said Sunday that officials are using high-tech voice recognition tools to zero in on the masked fanatic who carried out the brutal murder of American journalist James Foley.

“We are close,” Westmacott said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “There is some very sophisticated voice-identification technology and other measures that we have got which should allow us to be very clear about who this person is before very long.”

British newspapers reported Sunday that investigators were looking at several home-grown jihadists. The prime suspect is Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, a 23-year-old London rapper, who left his family’s $1 million home a year ago to fight with the Islamist fanatics and once posted a Twitter photo of himself holding a severed head, The Sunday Times reported.

He is one of six children of Abdel Abdul Bary, an Egyptian militant who is facing terrorism charges in connection with Al Qaeda’s twin 1998 bombings at the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people.

Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, the son of an Egyptian militant who is facing terrorism charges, went from rapping to posing with guns as a fighter for ISIS.

After spending years in and out of Egyptian prisons, subjected to torture, the elder Bary and his wife Ragaa were granted political asylum in Britain in 1993. He was arrested for the bombings in 1998 and was extradited to the United States in 2012 after a protracted legal battle.

Ragaa’s story is told in the book, “Shadow Lives: The Forgotten Woman of the War on Terror.”

The younger Bary rapped under the name L Jinny or Lyricist Jinn Matic, and his songs had been featured on the BBC’s Radio 1 Extra, media outlets reported.

In one freestyle posted on his Facebook page, he raps about being addicted to alcohol and “the rock.”

“I swear the day when they came and took my dad, I could have killed a couple too . . . Imagine back then I was only six, picture what I’d do now with a loaded stick . . . violate my brothers and I’m filling you with lead.”

In July 2013, he posted on Facebook, “The Unknown mixtape with my bro tabanacle will be the last music I’m ever releasing. I have left everything for the sake of Allah.”

On Aug. 13, he tweeted a photo of himself in Ragga, Iraq, holding a severed head and the caption “Chilllin’ with my homie or what’s left of him,” The Times of London reported. His Twitter account was suspended soon afterward.

Bary also tweeted a threat in June: “The lions are coming for you soon you filthy kuffs (infidels). Beheadings in your own backyard soon,” according to the Sunday Times.

In March, The Daily Mail reported that Bary claimed on Twitter he and another British jihadist were kidnapped, tortured and robbed by members of a rival terrorist group.

ISIS hostages referred to him and several other militants with British accents as “the Beatles.”

The black-masked man who beheaded Foley in a video posted to YouTube on Tuesday had a distinct British accent.

Some 500 Brits have traveled to the Middle East to join the terrorist group, Westmacott said, calling it “a betrayal of all that we stand for.”

Federal officials have estimated that at least 100 Americans could be fighting with Sunni extremists who have seized territory throughout western Syria and northwestern Iraq.

U.S. lawmakers joined in sounding the alarm about the threat from the radicalized jihadists — especially the many foreign fighters with American and European passports who could easily travel to the West.

“They are one plane ticket away from U.S. shores,” Rep. Mike Rogers, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on “Meet the Press.”

He said the number of militants with Western documents is “much higher” than the estimate of 2,000 that has been reported.

“They get new recruits every single day,” he said. “If that's a British citizen, we believe it was ... that individual goes back home and . . . buys one plane ticket, they’re in the United States," said Rogers. “We may or may not know who that individual is. That's what's so dangerous about this, and why we can't let them continue unabated.”

Rep. Michael McCaul, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said the militants “present the greatest threat we’ve seen since 9/11.”

“This has been festering for the last year and now it’s culminating with the killing and the beheading of an American journalist, which I think is a turning point,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.”

“The American people — it has sort of opened their eyes to what ISIS really is, the true character of ISIS, how savage they really are, and their intent to harm Americans.”

The FBI and Homeland Security Department issued a bulletin to local law enforcement Friday saying there are no specific or credible threats to U.S. soil from the militant group in retaliation for intensified airstrikes in Iraq.

With News Wire Services