The Apple Watch reveal back in September was big on excitement, but short on details. Among those things that Apple failed to mention was whether or not Cupertino’s new smartwatch will be able to withstand liquids — making it suitable for, say, swimming or washing the dishes.

While we still don’t have a final, definitive answer on what is and is not advisable with the Apple Watch, Tim Cook shed a bit of light on the mystery during a Q&A session with staff at the Kurfürstendamm Apple Store in Berlin, Germany, where he is currently visiting. Cook said that that he wears his Apple Watch “even in the shower.”

This is in contrast with what we had previously heard, courtesy of tech journalist David Pogue, who after a private briefing with Apple advised readers that, “Sweating [while wearing the Apple Watch], wearing it in the rain, washing your hands, or cooking with it is fine. Take it off before the swim or get in the shower, though.”

As much as we respect Pogue, you’d have to say that — when it comes to Apple advice — Cook trumps Pogue!

The Apple CEO also answered a few other questions in what sounds like an interesting session. Among them was a bit more clarification on the Apple Watch’s battery life, with Cook saying he removes the device to recharge overnight — something we’ve suspected based on previous reports.

Cook talked about some of the possible applications of the Apple Watch, including monitoring auctions on eBay — or else accessing hotel rooms in a way similar to existing apps for the iPhone.

Answering a question from a visually impaired employee, he said that the Apple Watch will have more accessibility features added over time, although it sounds like these features will be limited at first.

No price tariff was given for the device, but Cook confirmed that Apple will begin marketing the device in April. In what sounds like an amusing moment, Cook sidestepped the question of whether retail staff could have all have an Apple Watch to more easily show customers, by saying that it is a “good idea” and that he would “consider it.”

Cook also spoke about his efforts to improve working conditions in China, and lamented the fact that the media often choose to paint Apple in a bad light in this regard. Cook said that Apple is trying to ensure that there is no abuse of employees on the supply chain, and that they work fairer numbers of hours.

Finally, he addressed the reports that Apple Pay could be available in Europe soon by saying that Apple aimed for this to be the case “before the end of the year.”