A British-born U.S. photojournalist held by al-Qaida militants in Yemen has been killed in a failed rescue attempt, his sister has revealed today.

Luke Somers had been held hostage since September 2013 in Yemen's capital Sana'a having moved to the country two years earlier.

His sister Lucy told Associated Press that she learned of her 33-year-old brother's death from FBI agents at 5am this morning.

'We ask that all of Luke's family members be allowed to mourn in peace,' she said from London.

Scroll down for video

Lucy Somers said she learned of her 33-year-old brother Luke Somers' death from FBI agents

There was no immediate comment from Washington, nor from security officials in Yemen's capital, Sana'a.

Earlier this week al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) issued a video with a message aimed at the US government threatening to kill the hostage if its demands were not met.

Last week the U.S. said it had attempted a rescue operation to free a number of hostages, including Mr Somers, but that he had not been at the site of the raid.

The family of Mr Somers had earlier pleaded for him to be released.

In an online video Miss Somers described her older brother as a romantic who 'always believes the best in people.' She added: 'Please let him live.'

British-born U.S. photojournalist Luke Somers (pictured), who was being held by al-Qaida militants in Yemen, has been killed in a failed rescue attempt, his sister has revealed today

Luke Somers was kidnapped in September 2013 from Yemen's capital Sana'a (shown in the map above)

Mr Somers moved from London to Sana'a, Yemen in 2011 to become a teacher, but soon started taking pictures of public demonstrations and established himself as a photojournalist working for the Yemen Times

His father Michael said Mr Somers was 'a good friend of Yemen and the Yemeni people'.

It came after the release of the AQAP video which begins with a reading in Arabic from Nasser bin Ali al Ansi, an AQAP official, before Mr Somers appears and gives a statement in English.

He said: 'My name is Luke Somers. I'm 33 years old. I was born in England, but I carry American citizenship and have lived in America for most of my life.

'It's now been well over a year since I've been kidnapped in Sana'a. Basically, I'm looking for any help that can get me out of this situation. I'm certain that my life is in danger.

'So as I sit here now, I ask if anything can be done, please let it be done. Thank you very much.'

Al Ansi gave the US government three days to meet the demands or 'otherwise, the American hostage held by us will meet his inevitable fate'.

The three-minute video also features Ansi speaking about American activity in Afghanistan, Somalia and Iraq as well as recent air strikes in Syria.

It follows similar videos by another extremist militant group, Islamic State (IS), which has already killed two British hostages and three American hostages in videos released on social media.

Militants released a video on Thursday that showed Mr Somers, threatening to kill him in three days if the United States did not meet the group's demands

Nasser bin Ali al Ansi, senior official in Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, pictured, spoke for two minutes and thirty seconds during the video where he threatened to kill Mr Somers within three days

IS has posted a series of videos online showing the separate murders of US journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, US aid worker Peter Kassig and two British aid workers, David Haines and Alan Henning.

Footage claiming to show Mr Henning's murder appeared on the internet just days after the UK joined US-led air strikes against the terrorists in Iraq.

The news of the failed rescue comes after a suspected U.S. drone strike in Yemen killed nine alleged al-Qaida militants early Saturday, a security official said.

The drone struck at dawn in Yemen's southern Shabwa province, hitting a suspected militant hideout, the official said.

The official did not elaborate and spoke on condition of anonymity as he wasn't authorised to brief journalists.

At least six suspected militants were killed in an airstrike in the same province last month.

Later Saturday, tribal leaders said they saw helicopters flying over an area called Wadi Abdan in Shabwa province.

American authorities rarely discuss their drone strike campaign in Yemen.

The strikes are incredibly unpopular in Yemen due to civilian casualties, legitimising for many the attacks on American interests.

American commandos tried to rescue Mr Somers in a raid on an AQAP camp late last month, but he had been moved by the time they arrived

Begging for mercy: Luke's brother, Jordan (left), and his mother, Paula Somers (right), released a video on Thursday asking his al-Qaeda captors to release him

In a statement on Thursday, Pentagon press secretary Rear Admiral John Kirby acknowledged for the first time that a mysterious U.S. raid last month had sought to rescue Mr Somers but that he turned out not to be at the site.

Kirby did not elaborate on the joint U.S-Yemeni operation to free Mr Somers, saying details remained classified.

However, officials have said the raid targeted a remote al-Qaida safe haven in a desert region near the Saudi border. Eight captives - including Yemenis, a Saudi and an Ethiopian - were freed.

Mr Somers, a Briton and four others had been moved days earlier.

Mr Somers was kidnapped in September 2013 as he left a supermarket in the Yemeni capital, Sana'a, said Fakhri al-Arashi, chief editor of the National Yemen, where Mr Somers worked as a copy editor and a freelance photographer during the 2011 uprising in Yemen.

The U.S. considers Yemen's al-Qaida branch to be the world's most dangerous arm of the group as it has been linked to several failed attacks on the U.S. homeland.