Is Fidel Castro dead? Yes, a man named “Fidel Castro” has died, but he’s not the famous Castro you might be thinking of. The prospect that the leader of Cuba might have died is circulating on the internet, and the rumors claim Fidel Castro’s death was supposed be announced at an official conference, according to the Castro health rumors, but already Cuba has denied these rumors.

In a related report by the Inquisitr, it’s claimed that Ian Fleming, the author of the famous James Bond series, helped former President Kennedy to hatch a Fidel Castro assassination plot.

According to the el Nuevo Herald, the rumors claimed Fidel Castro dead because a man named Fidel Castro Odinga, the son of an important politician in Kenya, died over the weekend at the age of 14 years old.

“Castro Odinga was the son of Raila Odinga, the main opposition leader in Kenya and was considered a possible successor to his father. It is possible that his death and his name have confused many users of Twitter, and these have begun to spread the word about the supposed death of the Cuban leader.”

Kenyan police are currently investigating Odinga’s death, and these headlines may have encouraged rumors about the Cuban leader.

According to Laiguana TV, it’s also possible that a blog by Yusnaby Perez may have sparked rumors that claimed Fidel Castro dead because he had not been in public in many months.

“How strange! It is the first year since I can remember the anniversary of the Revolution that Fidel does not appear.”

Thursday marked a year since the former Cuban president made a public appearance. Castro has apparently received foreign dignitaries at his home in Havana, but has not commented publicly on the recent changes between Cuba and the United States that was announced on December 17, 2014.

The rumors were increased even further when Italian newspaper Corriere Della Sera reported on Fidel Castro’s death. The newspaper quickly retracted its report, but not before the alleged “news” about Castro went viral.

Because of these rumors several media outlets in Venezuela and Cuba claimed the Cuban government planned on calling a press conference to discuss Fidel Castro’s heath condition. But an official from the International Press Centre (CPI), the department Cuban Foreign Ministry serving foreign media, says this rumor is false, saying,

“That is false. No press conference was convened, no.”

In addition, Castro’s influential nephew, Alejandro Castro Espin, who is currently in Greece, told a radio station his uncle is “in good health” and there’s no reason to speculate about Castro’s death.