LONDON — The man in the black balaclava who has seemed to have beheaded several foreign hostages in Islamic State videos has been identified by British security services as Mohammed Emwazi, a British national from London.

Known in the news media as “Jihadi John,” he is said to have been born in Kuwait and traveled to Syria in 2012. His name was first published on Thursday on the website of The Washington Post.

The story was confirmed by a senior British security official, who said that the British government had identified Mr. Emwazi some time ago but had not disclosed his name for operational reasons.

Mr. Emwazi, 27, grew up in Queen’s Park, West London, and graduated from the University of Westminster with a degree in computer programming.

He first appeared in Islamic State videos in August, when he appeared to behead the American journalist James Foley and deliver threats against the West. The actual execution was not included in the video.

At a mosque in Birmingham, England, a young man carries a Union Jack bag.Britain Appeals to Anti-Extremist Imams in Effort to Uproot Seeds of RadicalizationAUG. 24, 2014
The head prosecutor in Paris said Monday that a Frenchman, Maxime Hauchard, right, had been identified in the Islamic State video that announced the beheading of Peter Kassig.Briton and Frenchman Tentatively Identified in Islamic State Execution VideoNOV. 17, 2014
German officials have shielded the full identity of Kreshnik B., left, who confessed to fighting in Syria with the Islamic State.Memo From Europe: Nations Ponder How to Handle European Fighters Returning From Jihad NOV. 23, 2014
Junko Ishido, the mother of the journalist Kenji Goto, spoke to reporters on Sunday at her house in Tokyo. “My son’s final act was to go to Syria to help a fellow Japanese,” she said. “Please understand his kindness and courage.”Hostage’s Apparent Beheading by ISIS Stirs Outrage in JapanFEB. 1, 2015
The father of Jejoen Bontinck, a young Belgian who spent three weeks in the same cell as James Foley and other hostages, showed a picture of the prison where they were held.ISIS Hostages Endured Torture and Dashed Hopes, Freed Cellmates SayOCT. 25, 2014
The same man was apparently seen in the videos of the beheadings of a second American journalist Steven J. Sotloff; the British aid worker David Cawthorne Haines; the British taxi driver Alan Henning; and the American aid worker Peter Kassig.

Last month, he appeared in a video with Haruna Yukawa and Kenji Goto, both Japanese hostages, shortly before they were killed. Scotland Yard refused to confirm the identification, and Downing Street had no comment.