Wanted: Islamic State group chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who has a $US10 million price on his head, delivers a sermon at a mosque in Iraq in July. Photo: AP

Beirut: The second wife of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is under interrogation in military detention in Lebanon after she was arrested in the north of Lebanon 10 days ago, security officials revealed on Tuesday.

It is unclear whether she was fleeing the self-proclaimed caliph of the extremist Sunni group, or if she remains loyal to Baghdadi and was simply in hiding, experts said.

Working with Western intelligence services, the Lebanese army tracked Saja Hamid al-Dulaimi, an Iraqi citizen, and her son to an undisclosed location north of the strife-ridden city of Tripoli, one official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said. Another source said she was captured in the northern border town of Arsal.

A young Syrian refugee walks past tents at the al-Nihaya camp in the eastern Lebanese town of Arsal, where some reports say Saja Hamid al-Dulaimi and her son were arrested. Photo: AFP

Her capture and detention could prove to be a significant setback for Baghdadi as she may be used as leverage to negotiate the release of the many prisoners – both foreign, Iraqi and Syrian – that the Islamic State is holding.

Lebanese security officials also hope her capture could be the breakthrough needed to secure the release of at least 26 Lebanese soldiers kidnapped by IS and Nusra Front militants in August.

A DNA test had confirmed the child, believed to be nine years old, is Baghdadi's son, the Lebanese al-Safir newspaper said, citing security officials.

It is believed Baghdadi's DNA may have been taken by US officials during the nine months he was held in an American-run prison in Iraq in 2004 after his capture in Fallujah

However in a sign of the confusion surrounding the arrests, some media sources reported the child in custody was a girl.

Dulaimi was one of 140 women released from a Syrian government jail in March this year as part of a prisoner swap that led to the release of 13 Greek Orthodox nuns held by al-Qaeda-linked Nusra Front in the Syrian town of Maaloula.

Since her release she is believed to have moved around the border area between Lebanon and Syria, sticking mostly to the mountainous territory held by the Nusra Front, said Mario Abou Zeid, a research analyst with the Carnegie Middle East Centre in Beirut.  "She was infiltrating the Lebanese borders, moving inside and outside Lebanon with fake IDs … in the area controlled by Nusra Front," Mr Abou Zeid said. "She maintained a very low profile, protecting herself and her son."  He warned that Dulaimi's capture, while an important step, may be of limited value to intelligence services given the Islamic State was renowned for ensuring operational matters were never discussed outside a very tight inner circle.  "The main pillar of their success is to minimise the amount of information anyone can have access to.  "Some may think she has all the secrets of Baghdadi, even though she was captured in the Syrian regime and since her release she has been almost completely cut off from Baghdadi, on the run along the Lebanese-Syrian border."  It is possible Dulaimi had been away from Baghdadi for so long that her information may be of little worth and her decision to relocate to Lebanon "could have been a defection from Baghdadi, she could have been fleeing", Mr Abou Zeid told Fairfax Media.  She is being questioned by investigators at the headquarters of the Lebanese defence ministry in the Yarze district, north of Beirut, the unnamed official said.  There is no doubt the counter-terrorism operation, which involved both Lebanese, US and European intelligence agencies, will prove useful, said retired Lebanese general and security analyst, Elias Farhat.  "She is one of the wives of the so-called caliph of the Islamic State … she will be useful in the negotiations between the Lebanese authorities as IS and Jabhat al-Nusra in relation to the kidnapped soldiers," General Farhat said.  "Her capture is one of the successful outcomes of cooperation between Lebanese and Western intelligence agencies."  But even as news of Dulaimi's capture broke over Lebanon, local media reported late on Tuesday that militants had attacked a Lebanese army patrol in Ras Baalbek, with a four-man unit feared harmed or kidnapped.  It is believed Baghdadi became head of the Islamic State of Iraq, a predecessor to IS, in 2010. It then expanded into Syria in 2013 and in June Islamic State militants took control of Iraq's second city of Mosul before moving south towards the capital.  There were reports last month that he had been killed in US-led airstrikes in Iraq, although soon after the Islamic State released a recording on November 13 – purportedly by Baghdadi – in which he called for "volcanos of jihad" to be unleashed over the world.

The US Government has offered a $US10 million ($11.84 million) reward for his capture.