New York City continues to seek ways to cut down on the large number of low-level arrests stemming from marijuana possession.

The NYPD plans to stop arrests for small amounts of marijuana, instead opting to issue court summonses, according to a report Nov. 9 in the New York Times. It wasn't immediately clear what threshold the city will use to determine low-level procession or when the new policy will be implemented.

Brooklyn has stopped prosecuting most low-level marijuana cases, the borough's district attorney said July 8. The policy change in New York's most populous borough makes exceptions for those with a criminal history or who smoke marijuana in public places or near children.

Blacks and Hispanics comprised 86% of all marijuana arrests in New York by August, according to the Marijuana Arrest Research Project. The Brooklyn district attorney's office has dismissed 849 marijuana cases since July, or about 34% of the 2,526 total cases in Brooklyn.

A 2013 New York Civil Liberties Union report called New York City "the nation's marijuana arrest capital." It said that that in 2010, King's County (Brooklyn) had 20,413 marijuana-related arrests and summonses, more than any other county in the state. The majority of arrests were of black people.

"Given that these cases are ultimately — and predictably — dismissed, the burdens that they pose on the system and the individual are difficult to justify. We are pouring money into an endeavor that produces no public safety benefit."
Brooklyn District Attorney Kenneth Thompson
Thompson said the policy change was meant to avoid giving criminal records to nonviolent individuals, particularly young people of color.

"Our police officers must enforce the laws of the State of New York uniformly throughout all five boroughs of the City. Accordingly, the Kings County policy change will not result in any changes in the policies and procedures of the NYPD."
Bill Bratton, New York City police commissioner
Bratton said in a statement on July 8 that police officers will continue to enforce the law, despite the district attorney's decision to stop prosecuting low-level crimes. A spokesman for the Staten Island district attorney said his borough would also "enforce the law."

Controversial policy ended:
NYC 'Stop and Frisk' Debate
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo held a signing ceremony July 7 for a bill making New York the nation's 23rd state to legalize medical marijuana. The law allows patients with certain diseases to obtain non-smokable marijuana products that can be ingested as an oil or with a vaporizer.