Jessica Chastain is also being sought for a role in Danny Boyle's Sony drama

Seth Rogen is being eyed to play Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak opposite Christian Bale in Sony's Steve Jobs movie, while Jessica Chastain is also being sought for a role in the film, multiple individuals familiar with the project have told TheWrap.

Danny Boyle is directing the film — which is not a traditional biopic — from a script by Aaron Sorkin, who had access to Jobs’ authorized biography by Walter Isaacson.

Also read: Aaron Sorkin Confirms Christian Bale as Steve Jobs: ‘He Didn't Have to Audition’

The film is expected to follow Jobs during three stressful, high-profile product launches including the first Macintosh in 1984 and Apple's 2001 debut of the iPod.

While neither Chastain nor Rogen have deals in place, the latter actor is in talks to play Wozniak, who created the Apple I computer and co-created the Apple II computer in the mid-1970s.

Scott Rudin, Mark Gordon and Guymon Casady are producing the film, which Sony has high hopes for, as it could be a major awards contender.

Also read: Christian Bale's Steve Jobs Looks a Lot Like Batman, According to ‘Conan’ (Video)

Rogen has proved himself more than capable of handling dramatic roles with his performances in “Take This Waltz” and “50/50.” Rogen's potential pairing with Bale has been compared to Martin Scorsese's decision to cast Jonah Hill alongside Leonardo DiCaprio in “The Wolf of Wall Street,” which of course culminated with the actor's second Oscar nomination.

Rogen next stars opposite James Franco in “The Interview,” which Sony will release on Christmas Day. Rogen and producing partner Evan Goldberg co-directed the R-rated comedy, just as they did Sony's upcoming animated movie “Sausage Party.” Rogen recently wrapped Sony's untitled Christmas Eve movie, which reteams him with his “50/50” collaborators Joseph Gordon-Levitt and director Jonathan Levine.

Rogen is represented by UTA, Principal Entertainment LA and attorney Fred Toczek.

Chastain, who is simply being courted for an unspecified role and does not have a deal in place, previously starred in Sony's “Zero Dark Thirty” and is known to have a close relationship with studio chief Amy Pascal. She next stars in Christopher Nolan's “Interstellar” and will soon be seen opposite Oscar Isaac in “A Most Violent Year.” She's represented by CAA and Mosaic.