Move over, Netflix and Hulu.
Word has it that Amazon is looking to launch an ad-supported streaming video service, which could give rivals a run for their money. The online retail giant is planning to roll out the new service early next year, the New York Post reported on Friday. It would be separate from Amazon's $99 yearly Prime membership, which offers unlimited movie streaming from the Instant Video library.
In a statement, an Amazon spokeswoman neither confirmed nor denied the rumor.
"We currently offer the first episode of some television shows free with ads through our First Episode Free feature on Amazon Instant Video, and there are display ads on some short videos such as movie and game trailers," the spokeswoman said. "We're often experimenting with new offers and experiences for customers, but we have not announced any plans to offer an ad-supported video streaming service."
This isn't the first time we've heard this rumor. The Wall Street Journal in March reported that Amazon was planning to launch its own advertising-filled TV streaming service — free to users, of course. Amazon, however, quickly shot down that rumor.
"We're often experimenting with new things, but we have no plans to offer a free streaming-media service," an Amazon spokesperson said at the time.
 Smile for Charity Go With the Flow Make Amazon Your Android App Store Prime the Whole Family Prime-ary Gift Get Prime Free (For A While) Don't Get Trapped by Prime VIEW ALL PHOTOS IN GALLERY
But the Post's sources now say an ad-supported version is definitely happening. But oddly, the report suggests that it might not be free. One source speculated that Amazon may undercut Netflix's current monthly price of $7.99, though.
"The main point is to bring in more users that you can eventually up-sell to Prime, or to get to a broader audience that doesn't want to pay for Prime, in order to increase their video share," a source told the news outlet.
Meanwhile, Amazon is already gaining ground on streaming rivals. A recent Sandvine study found that Amazon Instant Video has established itself as the second largest paid streaming video service in North America, though Netflix still dominates.
Netflix accounted for 34.9 percent of downstream North American traffic in the peak evening hours this year. Amazon had only 2.6 percent of downstream traffic, but its share has more than doubled in the past 18 months, Sandvine said.
On other news, Amazon is also mulling its own travel service, which would let you book stays at independent hotels and resorts, according to a report from travel news site Skift. The so-called Amazon Travel site, set to launch around Jan. 1, would reportedly "feature a curated selection of hotels within a few hours' drive from New York, Los Angeles, and Seattle."
Amazon declined to comment about the travel site rumor.
For more, check out 16 Tips Every Amazon Addict Should Know in the slideshow above, as well as 60 Geeky Movies, TV Shows on Amazon You Should Stream Now.
Amazon users, meanwhile, have a new way to access content: the Amazon Fire TV Stick $39.00 at Amazon is now shipping. Be sure to check out PCMag's review and the video below.