On Friday, Nigerian armed forces chief Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh announced a ceasefire between President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration and the extremist group Boko Haram. Bedeh claimed the truce, which was widely welcomed, would lay the groundwork for the release of the more than 200 girls who were abducted in April, spurring the explosion of the hashtag #BringBackOurGirls.

On Saturday, the supposedly appeased group launched an attack on a town in Adamawa State in eastern Nigeria, capturing 40 women and planting a flag in the town of Wagga. They also beheaded six victims during an assault on Friday, after the ceasefire deal was announced. All of which makes a truce, supposedly negotiated with the “chief of security” of the Boko Haram group and the Nigerian government, seem decidedly shaky.

The ceasefire claims, and Boko Haram’s subsequent actions, have left people in Nigeria scratching their heads, with experts saying the ceasefire may have been a mirage, either a fraud concocted by the government or the middleman who brokered the agreement, whose real-life links to Boko Haram are now in dispute.

Alleged Boko Haram envoy Danladi Ahmadu is now under scrutiny, with many questioning whether he is in fact the group’s chief of security and has the authority to speak on its behalf. During an interview on Friday, Ahmadu didn’t explicitly say that Boko Haram had agreed to a ceasefire, and he did not give details of the girls’ release, Arab News reports. Elders in Borno state in Nigeria’s north-east have publicly said that they believe the government was negotiating with a fraudster, and have yet to talk to the real Boko Haram.

Boko Haram, meanwhile, has not released a public statement about the ceasefire. Rather, they have continued on a weekend campaign of violence, holding running battles with Nigerian security forces, who say that they have yet to receive any word from their superiors ordering them to cease fire in skirmished with the insurgents.

“It is not clear who the said Boko Haram negotiator is, and whether he has the mandate of the entire group or just a faction of the entire group,” Arab News quoted Nnamdi Obasi, senior analyst of Nigeria for Crisis Group, an independent, nongovernmental organization.

Some people think the announcement is a political move by President Jonathan to inspire optimism in voters and win their support, as it’s rumored he will announce his run for re-election in February 2015 over the next few weeks. The government said it has been working on negotiations with Boko Haram for months.