Iraqi pilots who have joined Islamic State in Syria are training members of the group to fly in three captured fighter jets, a group monitoring the war said on Friday, saying it was the first time the militant group had taken to the air.

Canada is assembling a camp in Kuwait to launch its own air campaign over Iraq, sending six CF-18 fighters, two surveillance craft and a refuelling aircraft to help the U.S.-led coalition’s air strikes against Islamic State. The government says Canada will be in a position to begin air strikes against Islamic State at some point within the last seven days of October.

(Who are Islamic State? Get caught up with The Globe’s primer)

JETS: FIRST SIGN OF ISLAMISTS USING WARPLANES

Islamic State has been flying the planes over the captured al-Jarrah military airport east of Aleppo, said Rami Abdulrahman, who runs the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

Reuters was not immediately able to verify the report and U.S. Central Command said it was not aware of Islamic State flying jets in Syria.

“They have trainers, Iraqi officers who were pilots before for (former Iraqi president) Saddam Hussein,” Abdulrahman said. “People saw the flights, they went up many times from the airport and they are flying in the skies outside the airport and coming back,” he said, citing witnesses in northern Aleppo province near the base, which is 70 kilometressouth of the Turkish border.

Witnesses reported the flights were at a low altitude and only lasted five to 10 minutes before landing, the observatory said. It was not possible to reach the Syrian government for comment and state media did not mention the report.

It was not clear whether the jets were equipped with weaponry or whether the pilots could fly longer distances in the planes, which witnesses said appeared to be MiG 21 or MiG 23 models captured from the Syrian military.

General Lloyd Austin, head of the U.S. military’s Central Command, said he could not confirm that Iraqi pilots had joined Islamic State. “We don’t have any operational reporting of ISIL flying jets in support of ISIL activity on the ground and so I cannot confirm that. And to the degree that pilots may have defected and joined the ranks of ISIL, I don’t have any information on that either,” he told a Pentagon news briefing, referring to Islamic State by an acronym.

(Canada in Kuwait: Read more about the unfolding Iraq mission)

LONDON: POLICE ALLEGE ISLAMIST PLOT TO KILL POLICE

Four men appeared in a British court on Friday, charged under anti-terrorism legislation with swearing allegiance to Islamic State militants and preparing to launch an attack on policemen or soldiers on the streets of London.

The four, who were arrested over the past two weeks, are variously charged with obtaining a handgun and conducting “hostile reconnaissance” of Shepherd’s Bush police station in west London and the nearby White City reservist army barracks. Further charges include storing images sent via photo-sharing service Instagram of two police officers and of two civilian police community support officers.

“This is a plot, in essence, to shoot, to kill, police officers or soldiers on the streets of London,” prosecutor Mark Dawson told Westminster Magistrates’ Court.

Tarik Hassane, 21; Suhaib Majeed, 20; Nyall Hamlett, 24; and Momen Motasim, 21, all from the London area, were remanded in custody after a brief hearing to appear at the Old Bailey court on Oct. 27. They have yet to enter a plea. A fifth man, Nathan Cuffy, 25, also from London, was remanded in custody on firearms offences.

BRITAIN: A 14TH-CENTURY TREASON LAW REVISITED

Britain may use a medieval law dating to 1351 to charge citizens with treason if they go to fight with Islamic State insurgents in Iraq and Syria, Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said.

Security officials say some 500 Britons – largely with Muslim immigrant backgrounds – are believed to be fighting in Iraq and Syria, though the true figure could be much greater and security officials worry that those who return could carry out an attack on Britain.

Hammond said any British citizen who had sworn personal allegiance to Islamic State could have committed an offense under the Treason Act of 1351, passed during the reign of England’s King Edward III. The maximum sentence for treason in Britain is life imprisonment. It was death until 1998.

The last person to be hanged for treason in Britain was William Joyce, a propagandist for Nazi Germany nicknamed Lord Haw Haw who broadcast to Britain during the Second World War and who was executed in 1946.

With reports from Steven Chase and Kim Mackrael