Outline
Circulating report claims that from January 1st 2015, McDonald's will stop serving overweight customers in an effort to battle increasing obesity rates.

Fake News

  

Brief Analysis
The claims in the report are false. McDonald's is not about to implement such a policy. The false report comes from a website called Daily Buzz Live. The site publishes a confusing mixture of sensationalized but factual news stories and fictional nonsense disguised as news.

    



  

related Links
NONSENSE - 'McDonalds Using Human Meat'
HOAX- 'McDonald's Users Worm Fillers in Meat
Seriously McDonald's - African Americans Pay More Hoax
What's New   Top Ten   Special Features   Subscribe

Example
McDonald's Will Stop Serving Overweight Customers Beginning 1/1/15 

Obesity rates in America have more than doubled over the last 2 decades and has become the leading public health issue in the U.S.

McDonalds


Detailed Analysis

 
Report Claims McDonald's To Stop Serving Overweight Customers
According to a 'news' report that is circulating via social media and the blogosphere, McDonald's has decided to stop serving its products to overweight customers in a move designed to fight against growing obesity rates.

Supposedly, the fast food chain will implement the new policy on January 1st 2015. The report explains that scales will be installed in front of each register and customers will have to stand on the scales before ordering. Customers who weigh-in higher than Macdonald's pre-determined weight standards will not be served, claims the report.

Report is False - McDonald's Has Not Announced Such a Policy
However, the story is - of course - a work of fiction.  McDonald's has certainly not announced any plans to implement such a policy. 

The story comes from the 'news' website Daily Buzz Live. The site does feature rather sensationalized stories on true incidents. However, it mixes these genuine reports with stories that are pure fiction.

The site includes the following disclaimer on its Contact page:

Daily Buzz Live is a news web publication with news articles. Most are inspired by real news events, And just a few stories are works of complete fiction. Those few articles are for entertainment purposes only. The articles and stories may or may not use real names, always a semi real and/or mostly, or substantially, fictitious ways. Therefore, just a few articles contained on this website Daily Buzz Live are works of fiction. Any truth or actual facts contained in those stories or posts are purely incidental or coincidental and not intended to be, or be construed as, facts.
But alas, both true and fictional stories published on the site are presented as news stories. And the site makes no effort to let readers know which stories are true and which are fiction.

Thus, a lot of readers are apt to believe the fictional reports that they see on the site and share them as true.

Always Verify 'News' Stories Before Sharing
There are now many fake-news 'satirical' websites online that, between then, churn out an endless stream of drivelling nonsense gussied up as news.

Thus, it is wise to check out any 'news' stories that hit your social media feeds or inboxes before you share them. Usually, searching a news portal such as Google News will quickly reveal if a story is true.