FEARS have been raised that Islamic State could target Britain with an EBOLA attack after two of the terror group's fighters reportedly contracted the deadly virus.

Sources at a hospital in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul say they have seen suspected cases involving two IS fighters.

They are believed to have unknowingly travelled from their African homelands with Ebola.

The news will spark fears that the jihadists could use the killer virus to hit Britain with so-called "human-bug bombs".

Intelligence experts have already urged authorities to be ready for members of the extremist outfit deliberately trying to spread Ebola in the West.

Even if a calculated plot does not emerge, experts fear Ebola could be accidentally spread by IS — also known as ISIS and ISIL — should it tear through the group's ranks.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) was last night scrambling to uncover more information about the Iraqi infection claims.

WHO officials have offered to assist the Iraqi government in investigating any potential outbreak.

However, experts are concerned that the lack of resources and doctors — caused by IS's bloody campaign in Syria and Iraq — could make cases impossible to probe and treat.

IS fighters have reportedly killed more than a dozen doctors, who may have been able to confirm the diagnoses, in Mosul.

Meanwhile Western medics, who would normally travel to the Middle East to help, face terrifying risks of kidnap and beheading by IS.

Ebola's potential appearance in Mosul was reported by three separate media outlets yesterday.

Mosul is 250 miles north of Baghdad and has been controlled by IS since June, 2014.

Al-Sabaah, an Iraqi newspaper, said two cases of Ebola and 26 of AIDS were reported in the city.

Citing medical sources, it claimed the virus had been transported from "terrorists" who came "from several countries" in Africa.

WHO director of communications Christy Feig said there has been "no official notification" from the Iraqi government that Ebola has been confirmed.

The organisation is trying to contact Iraqi officials to see if help can provided to investigate any suspected cases in rebel-controlled areas of the country.

Meanwhile a Kurdish official told media outlet Xendan the fighters’ symptoms were similar to those experienced by Ebola sufferers.

However, the effects of Ebola can resemble those caused by a number of illnesses, including malaria and Lassa and Yellow Fever.

They include nausea and vomiting, diarrhoea, bleeding and bruising.

Middle East-based intelligence analyst Benjamin Decker said IS's killing of medics and its decision to ban Westerners from its territory could allow Ebola to spread rapidly.

He said: "United Nations workers have thus far been prohibited from entering ISIS-controlled territory in both Iraq and Syria.

"In this context the lack of medical infrastructure, supplies and practitioners in the city suggests that the outbreak could quickly lead to further infection of both ISIS fighters and residents of Mosul."

Hundreds of Britons are believed to have to travelled to join IS forces, with some already heading home.

Security and intelligence services monitor those who come back to see if they have renounced the terror network’s barbaric regime or whether they remain suspected terrorists plotting UK atrocities.

However, the current system may not equip security services for motoring symptoms of the Ebola, according to the WHO, has killed around 8,000 people in West Africa and affected areas so far.

IS is a hardline jihadist group, which formerly had ties to al-Qaeda.

It seized vest swathes of Iraq and Syria in August in a bid to create a so-called caliphate.

brightcove.createExperiences();