Many of today’s modern customer service departments are notorious for leaving customers with anything but service. Phone calls lead to recorded run-arounds that resolve nothing while wasting the customer’s time. If a live customer service representative is actually reached, they may cheerily declare a customer’s problem solved, only for said customer to later find out that their problem is still alive and well. And sometimes companies have insulated themselves so well against customer complaints that the customer is simply left to pound sand.

But a company that will get you fired from your job for complaining to them? Ladies and Gentlemen, please welcome, Comcast!

While definitely not Comcast’s first trip to the bad customer service rodeo, this latest case may trump all others, with Comcast getting a guy named Conal fired from his company following ongoing problems he was having with Comcast, reports the Consumerist.

Conal, an employee with a prominent accounting firm, received wrong products, extra products he didn’t request or need, wrong bills, and unwarranted bills – in other words a virtual blizzard of frustrating gaffes by Comcast that he could not get resolved through Comcast customer service. So, he went above their heads to the Comcast powers that be, including their controller.

An unforeseen conflict that Conal didn’t recognize, however, is that his company did business with Comcast. One of the higher ups at Comcast did see this though, and headed back over to Conal’s employer apparently intent on turning Conal’s complaints to Comcast against him.

This obviously influential Comcast executive had discussions about Conal with one of the partners in Conal’s company, and Conal got the boot shortly thereafter.

Conal says he’d only ever received positive reviews for his work, but the company claims he tried to use their name to get leverage in his dispute with Comcast. Conal maintains he did no such thing and can only surmise that someone from Comcast did some online sleuthing and figured out the connection with where he worked. This seemingly allowed Comcast to do some leveraging of their own to get Conal fired for daring to complain about their services.

In the end, Conal’s employer says they fired him based on an email from Comcast that gave an overview of Conal’s alleged wrongdoings via his interactions with Comcast employees.

Conal, meanwhile, says he’s never been allowed to see that email to check its veracity, and Comcast won’t release any documentation they have regarding his situation, either.

So, now stuck in a literal corporate nightmare, beneath both his own disloyal, former company and Comcast, Conal is left with little recourse, though he has retained a lawyer that has reportedly been in touch with Comcast.

The old adage about the customer always being right certainly doesn’t seem to hold any water in Conal’s dealings with Comcast.

But Business Insider reports that, as also mentioned above, Conal isn’t the first victim of Comcast’s alleged less-than-stellar customer service.

Below, please enjoy some of Comcast’s more well-known, documented, customer service fails.

Video via CNN/YouTube, image via Google Images