A patient in Frisco, Texas, walked into an urgent care facility on Wednesday exhibiting signs and symptoms of Ebola, and told health-care workers he had had contact with "patient zero" in Dallas, local officials said in a statement, referring to Thomas Eric Duncan, who died Wednesday of the virus.

The Texas Department of State Health Services refuted that claim to CNN, however, saying "no indication" the man had contact with Duncan.

It is not known if the patient is one of the 48 being monitored by Texas health officials. A patient who saw the man at the facility told NBCDFW's Ray Villeda that the man arrived with his wife, appearing "flush, slouched but walking."

A spokesperson for CareNow confirmed the news to Mashable, saying that the man "checked yes" to one of the screening questions regarding travel to West Africa. "We are being very cautious," she said, adding that while the facility remains open, "we are not currently seeing any patients."

"We are working with the Health Deptartment, the CDC and multiple other municipalities to follow protocol," the spokesperson said.

A reporter on the scene, however, said CareNow is sealed off from the public.

#Breaking #Frisco police have sealed off Care Now clinic where patient exhibited signs of #Ebola pic.twitter.com/iMWc52TOjc

— J.D. Miles (@jdmiles11) October 8, 2014

A car that was left at the facility was cordoned off with red tape on Wednesday afternoon.

RIGHT NOW: car outside CareNow clinic taped off with red "DANGER" tape @NBCDFW pic.twitter.com/47FkA0vRCN

— Ray Villeda (@RayVilleda) October 8, 2014

And officials in protective suits were spotted walking around inside.

LOOK: inside staff at CareNow wearing masks and protective gear @NBCDFW pic.twitter.com/hReAuab7z0

— Ray Villeda (@RayVilleda) October 8, 2014

The patient is being taken by ambulance — complete with police escort — to Dallas Presbyterian Hospital, where he will be evaluated for Ebola.

#BREAKING Frisco Ambulance transporting patient from CareNow http://t.co/W8SguwjskA pic.twitter.com/8wNaPjdQwy

— NBC DFW (@NBCDFW) October 8, 2014

WFAA said the vehicle is registered to a deputy who "was very vocal about not wearing protective gear" during a previous visit to Duncan's apartment. NBC 5 believes the patient is an employee with the Dallas County Sheriff's Office.

Officials have planned a media briefing for 3:30 p.m. local time.

Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.