If North Korea's Supreme Leader, Kim Jong-un, is not running the Hermit Kingdom, then who is?

That presumes, of course, that the 30-something leader has run into serious health problems, physical or political, and no one yet knows that for sure -- only that he has remained out of public view for five weeks.

But in the opaque world of North Korean politics, that's enough to start a serious guessing game.

While North Korean officials quietly let the word filter out this week that Kim is doing just fine with an injured ankle, that hasn't quelled speculation on who might grasp the reins of power if they slip -- or have slipped -- from his chubby hands.

There are only a handful of possible pretenders to the throne, but perhaps the most intriguing is 27-year-old Kim Yo Jong, who wields the ultimate trump card as youngest daughter of the late departed leader Kim Jong Il and granddaughter of the founder of the country, Kim Il Sung.

A think-tank operated by North Korean defectors, the North Korea Intellectuals' Solidarity, says she may be directing the government, at least temporarily.

As with most top figures in North Korea, particularly members of the Kim family, little is known of Kim Yo Jong, and much of that is a compilation of snippets of information.

One of the most extensive bios comes from Michael Madden, who runs the blog North Korea Leadership Watch. He says Kim Yo Jong was been identified in the North Korean media as deputy director of the Workers' Party of Korea, a powerful position indeed.

It was the first explicit mention of her in a state media report as a senior party official -- and a sign of her ascension.

Madden also says she works as an aide to her brother, Kim Jong-un -- something of a chief of staff -- running his public events, itineraries and logistical needs. In addition, she has ties to the Guard Command and Ministry of State Security.

Her biggest foray to the West came as a child when she attended elementary school in Berne, Switzerland from 1996 to 2000, using the name "Kim Yo'ng Sun" and living in the North Korean Embassy. Her brother, now Supreme Leader, was also studying nearby. Madden says that some photos of her as child were captured on home video by other parents at the school.

Kim Yo Jong has made periodic appearances in public, notably in December 2011 at various events held for her deceased father, Kim Jong Il. She has also been shown in the North Korean media in the background while her brother visits hospitals or children's camps, and can be seen sitting in the elite arm chair section reserved for high officials, though on the second row, at a concert attended by her brother.

Madden also says he believes she played a large role in planning Hwang's recent trip to South Korea, raising speculation as to which of these powerful figures had the upper hand in pulling it off.

"She is one of the only people in [North Korea] that we know has unfettered direct access to (Kim Jong Un)," Madden tells Global Post. "At the present time I would not be surprised if she is sole gatekeeper."

Victor Cha, an analyst with the Center for Strategic and International Studies who handled the North Korea portfolio with the National Security Council, tells CNN that if Kim Yo Jong, at age 27, is in fact running the country "it means there is something seriously wrong with Kim Jong Un and there is some sort of void that they're desperately trying to fill."

Among those already wielding power is Hwang Pyong So, who has moved up quickly under Kim Jong Un as vice marshall of the Korean People's Army and new chief of the General Political Bureau of the KPA.

Most important, he is vice-director of the Organization and Guidance Department for the Workers Party of Korea, a post that finalizes appointments within North Korea's leadership.

Hwang's rapid rise makes him chief beneficiary of a series of recent high-level military purges, including the arrest and execution of the Supreme Leader's uncle, Jang Song Theak, a four-star general.

Last weekend, Hwang, who is believed to be around 65 years old, led a North Korean delegation on a surprise visit to South Korea, ostensibly to visit the Asian Games, where North Korean athletes were participating. The delegation reportedly gave the South Koreans only one day's notice.

Hwang, decked out in his high-peaked cap, also held closed-door talks with top South Korean officials and agreed to restart long-stalled peace talks between the two countries, which are still technically at war.

Hwang's position atop the military structure offers considerable clout in a highly structured, tightly controlled North Korea and makes him a prime contender for the top spot.

Of course, in a secretive world like North Korea, powerful figures may well operate out of the shadows. One clue to the pecking order, though, is a favorite of old Cold War Kremlinologists -- seeing who sits next to whom at public events.

One well-placed figure, literally and figuratively, has been Gen. O Kum Chol, who was shown in July sitting two seats away from Kim Jong-un at a volleyball game.

As Vice Chief of the KPA General Staff, O Kum Chol's portfolio includes military strategy and planning as well as relations with foreign militaries. He is also a member of the central committee of the Workers' Party of Korea and deputy of the Supreme People's Assembly, which gives him considerable clout.

On the other hand, the guy sitting between him and Kim Jong Un was none other than Hwang Pyong So.

Until Kim Jong Un's status is clarified, the speculation will continue.