The show was a global hit and Jess Smith became one of the most famous faces in the world - but for 19 years only her family ever knew it was her

Does Jess Smith look familiar? If so, it's probably because she's still recognisable as the Teletubbies sun baby - almost 20 years after she starred in the kids' show.

After 19 years, the student has finally broken her silence and outed herself as the the baby face in mega-popular children's TV show.

She was selected to be the giggling baby sun, who looks over Teletubbyland at the age of nine months.

The show was a global hit and Jess, now 19, became one of the most famous faces in the world - but only her family ever knew it was her.

As Danger Mouse prepares to grace our televisions once again, see the cartoons who blazed the trail before him

There were even rumours the true identity of the baby was another Jessica Smith - the 27-year-old star of American teen soap Laguna Beach.

But Jess has finally gone public and spoken for the first time about her iconic role in the TV show, which featured characters Tinky-Winky, Dipsy, Laa Laa and Po.

Video loading            Watch next        Watch this video again  Watch Next

Jess only revealed her secret past during a game with her university friends - where they all had to say something about themselves that no one else would guess.

She then used Facebook to confirm it was her - and photos show she still has the same cheeky face.

Jess said: "I thought I may as well tell them as I'm going to be spending the next three years with them.

"My mother is really chuffed."

The first-year dance education student at Canterbury Christ Church University then made the news public on Facebook.

She wrote: "So I've recently celebrated my 19th birthday and after a lot of thought, I've decided it's time to tell everyone.

"I used to hide it but after a lot of encouragement from my friends at university, I've gained the confidence to come out with it.

"I am the sun from Teletubbies.

"There has been quite a few people pretending to be 'the sun' but only I could tell you the real story."

Sensation: The Teletubbies gang Tinky-Winky, Dipsy, Laa Laa and Po

Jess added: "I am really happy, cheerful and giggly. When I told my friends they said they could see me in the sun baby face."

Jess' name was put forward when her mother Anji Smith, 44, a recruitment consultant, took her to be weighed at Edenbridge Hospital, Kent.

A health visitor had been asked by Ragdoll Productions to find smiley babies.

Jess was put in a high chair for the filming so she would be looking down like the sun.

Her furniture deliver father Bill, 49, made her giggle by playing with a teddy bear behind the camera.

As no one could predict the success of the show, Jess was paid just £250 for filming and given a box of toys to take home.

Delighted Mrs Smith said: "It was just something a bit different to do and we didn't expect it to be as big as it was.

"They just sat her in front of a camera and she just laughed and smiled at her dad.

"We didn't hear anything until we got a letter when she was 18 months old saying she'd been picked.

"It was really weird seeing her on television."

The BBC is preparing to make 60 new episodes of the hugely popular 90s children's television show.

Poll loading …