As Apple gears up to launch the Apple Watch in April this year, Tim Cook while talking to an employee at the Apple Store spilled some extra information about the wearable before the launch. He also gave a tentative time-frame as to when Apple Pay will be reaching Europe. Also, analysts have predicted what Apple might offer at the time of its smartwatch launch.

While we already know that Apple Watch will be water resistant, Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple further confirmed it as shower-proof, while chatting with a Kurfurstendamm Apple Store (Berlin) employee. Reported by iGen (via 9to5Mac), the CEO said that he always wears the watch - "even in the shower". Cook added that he puts his Apple Watch on charge every night, which reconfirms the expected battery life from Apple's previous statements and multiple reports.

Regarding Apple Pay, Cook said that the firm plans to bring the service to Europe not "before the end of the year." The announcement is somewhat a contradiction to announcements by UK banks, which in the recent past stated they were in talks to bring the Apple Pay system by the first half of 2015. According to Cook, the mobile payment system should reach Canada as soon as next month.

Meanwhile, Trip Chowdhry, an analyst from Global Equities Research has predicted that Apple might introduce as many as 100,000 apps for the Apple Watch by time it gets launched. The huge number comes from six "Apple Watch-Kit hackathons" in the past few months, which Chowdhry attended, according to a Barrons blog post.

He further states that the $350 (roughly Rs. 21,700) price tag for the smartwatch seems to be no issue because "On an average an Apple Watch user will have 100 Apps installed, and one way to think about it is that the consumer is getting 100 devices for $350..i.e. $3.50 (roughly Rs. 217) per device," considering each app and its function as a single device.

As for the sales, Apple is being expected to ship almost 42 million units by December this year. "Since Apple Watch extends iPhone functionality and provides user convenience with 'Glance' and 'Notifications' to an iPhone User, almost every current iPhone user, which are about 350 million users, will also be an Apple Watch user," he explains.

For full coverage of the Mobile World Congress from Barcelona, visit our MWC 2015 page.