Madrid | The doctors of the Hospital Carlos III confirmed this morning in a press conference, the first human death caused by eating genetically modified food. Juan Pedro Ramos died of anaphylaxis after eating recently developed tomatoes with fish genes, causing a violent and deadly allergic reaction.

This surprising announcement comes after the autopsy of the Spanish man of 31, who died at the hospital in Madrid in early January. The health of the young man quickly deteriorated after suffering an allergic reaction unexplained, and all drugs used to contain anaphylaxis have been totally ineffective. The team of experts claims to have been able to determine that genetically modified tomatoes that the victim ingested at lunch, were the cause of the allergic reaction that caused his death.

Mr. Ramos was working as a secretary in a Madrid warehouse on January 7, and began to feel sick just after lunch. A number of symptoms occurred, including a rash with violent itching, severe swelling of the throat and a drastic drop in blood pressure. The man, who was known to have allergies, quickly injected a degree add'rénaline but his health continued to deteriorate.

The young man was quickly taken to hospital by colleagues, but the medical staff could not identify the cause of the allergic reaction in the time and no treatments or conventional medications seemed to work. Mr. Ramos was pronounced dead a little over an hour after arriving at the hospital.

The young man seemed happy and healthy when this photo was taken by his roommate, less than 24 hours before his death.
The young man seemed happy and healthy when this photo was taken by his roommate, less than 24 hours before his death.
Forensic scientists and experts from the hospital Carlos III had to perform a wide battery of tests and analysis before we can accurately determine what caused the death of Mr. Ramos, and this because of an allergic reaction to seafood, because the only things he had swallowed before his death were bacon, lettuce and tomato sandwich accompanied by a cocacola light. They were surprised when they discovered that the tomato he had ingested allergens contained not only related to fish, but also some antibiotic resistance genes that had prevented the white blood cells of M. Ramos to save his life.

"At first we thought there had been some form of contamination of food, contact with fish or seafood during the preparation" , explained Dr. Rafael Pérez-Santamarina. "It ' is that when we tested the tomato itself, we noticed that it contained certain allergens commonly found in seafood. We did a lot of different analyzes and they all confirmed that the tomato was indeed the source of allergens that killed Mr. Ramos. "

Several experiments on GMOs produced horrible tumors and even killed rats in laboratories, but most of GM products on the market were considered harmless to humans.
Several experiments on GMOs produced horrible tumors and even killed rats in laboratories, but most of GM products on the market were considered harmless to humans.
 

Mr. Ramos is the first human death officially confirmed linked to the ingestion of genetically modified foods. It contradicts most studies on GMOs that have concluded that genetically modified current market crops were edible and without dangers.

A team of scientists led by the University of Nebraska had anticipated this problem in 1996, when they found that the protein of a walnut in Brazil, introduced to improve the nutritional quality of GM soy was able to cause an allergic reaction in Brazil. However, this problem has been rejected by most scientists as unlikely as it could easily be avoided with appropriate safety tests. Soybean genes injections in Brazil nuts were effectively abandoned during development, but it seems that the genetically modified tomato that caused the death of Mr. Ramos was not enough to be tested and risk of death had not been identified before marketing.

The Spanish Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, which placed the order of Portuguese origin tomatoes that have infected the young man, demanded that they be repatriated and removed from shops and markets for reasons security. More than 7,000 tons of tomatoes will be seized across the country by ministry inspectors and officials of public safety.

The ministry also made ​​a public announcement about the death of Mr. Ramos in which he offers his condolences to his family and added that "immediately request further research on the subject, to determine if other food products GM on the European market could represent a risk for the Spanish population. "