THE young soldier killed in a terror attack on the Canadian parliament last night was a devoted family man and a career soldier who planned on becoming a border guard.

By contrast, his killer was a convicted criminal who was on the terror watchlist and had his passport confiscated.

It was chance that brought the two men together, when Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, launched his attack as Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 25, stood guard at Ottawa’s war memorial, just metres away from the national parliament.

Zehaf-Bibeau shot Corporal Cirillo dead before running into parliament, only to be killed himself by the Sergeant-at-Arms, Kevin Vickers.

VICKERS: Sergeant-at-arms the hero of Ottawa

Mr Vickers has been hailed as a hero after he dashed into his office to retrieve a hand gun before shooting Zehaf-Bibeau dead.

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, the gunman responsible for the shooting. Image credit: @CBCOttawa
Michael Zehaf-Bibeau shot dead Nathan Cirillo and stormed parliament before being killed. Picture from the Twitter account of CBC Ottawa
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper declared the act a “terror attack” as he said that Canadians would not be intimidated by such actions.

The attack had particular potency, with Canada already on alert because of a deadly hit-and-run earlier in the week against two Canadian soldiers by Muslim convert Martin Rouleau-Couture.

Corporal Cirillo’s aunt has described him as a “wonderful young man,” who joined the cadets in his hometown of Hamilton as an adolescent, and went on to enlist with the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders.

CANBERRA: Copycat fear locks down Parliament

In a cruel twist, he was carrying out a short rotation of just one month as a guard at the war memorial. The position was created seven years ago after a string of vandalism attempts.

The National War Memorial, which includes the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, honours Canadians who died for their country.

“He was a wonderful young man. Not an enemy in the world,” Cpl. Cirillo’s aunt, told the Globe and Mail newspaper

LIVE- Ottawa parliament attack

She said her nephew was devoted to his six-year-old son, and spent almost all of his spare time with his family, and working out, she said. “He was into being fit. And being a father and a son.”

Zehaf-Bibeau, on the other hand, had a criminal record in Quebec and British Columbia. The son of a Libyan mother and Quebecoise mother, he has convictions for drug possession and robbery.

He was recently designated a “high risk traveller” by the Canadian government, and his passport was seized.

OTTAWA: Ottawa attacker on terror watchlist

His mother Susan is the deputy chairman of the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada, Radio Canada has reported.

Police said in the initial hours after the shootings that as many as two other gunmen may have taken part. But as the day wore on, the cordon around Parliament was eased, employees were allowed to go home, and the sense of urgency appeared to wane.

“Today is a sad and tragic day for our city and our country,” Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson said. He said it was a tragedy with “origins as yet not fully known, causes not yet fully understood.”

Witnesses said Corporal Cirillo was gunned down at point-blank range just before 10 am by a man carrying a rifle and dressed all in black, his face half-covered. They said the gunman appeared to raise his arms in triumph, then ran off and entered Parliament, a few hundred yards away, where dozens of shots soon rang out.

DEFENCE: ADF chief warns against complacency

People fled the complex by scrambling down scaffolding erected for renovations, while others took cover inside and barricaded doors with chairs as police with rifles and body armour took up positions outside and cordoned off the normally bustling streets around Parliament.

Video footage posted online by the Globe and Mail newspaper showed police ducking for cover as they advanced along a stone hallway, loud gunfire echoing among parliament’s stone columns.

Reporters in Canada said that if the gunman had turned left as he ran into the building, he would have entered the room where a caucus meeting was being held.

Colonel Geordie Elms, a former commanding officer of the Argylls, told The Globe and Mail that his “heart just fell” when he saw the regiment’s distinctive gold leopard badge on the shot soldier on television broadcasts. “That could only be one unit,” he said he thought at the time.

Because the guard role is considered ceremonial, Mr Cirillo’s gun probably was not loaded, he said.

Hamilton Mayor Bob Bratina told the newspaper he had visited Corpl Cirillo’s family, who had told him that he was excited to be a part of the army.

“He was so proud of it,” he said, “and looked really great wearing the Argylls kit.”

AP/AFP