While hype around the Apple Watch has remained steady, one factor has hurt consumers' interest: No one has known when it's arriving. All that Apple revealed was that the device — its first foray into wearables — would be unveiled sometime in early 2015. Does that mean right after New Year's? Or early Spring? Now, we're getting a clearer idea on the release date for the Apple Watch.

Sources familiar with the product’s development told 9to5Mac that the device is on track to ship by the end of March. Additionally, multiple sources revealed that Apple is planning a comprehensive testing program to train retail store employees on the new product between Feb. 9-16.

The program will entail sending one to two associates from each U.S. store to the company's offices in Cupertino, California or Austin, Texas. There, employees will be familiarized with all the features of the watch first-hand. Those employees will then train the staff at their respective stores.

While the plan is reportedly to release the wearable in March, 9to5Mac noted that unexpected delays are always a possibility. If there are any setbacks in terms of software development or manufacturing, the Apple Watch may not hit stores until April or later.

As I wrote in December:

Apple certainly made some smart decisions for the firm’s foray into wearables. For one, the company refused to describe the product as a “smartwatch” — something that separated their gadget from competitors’. On the other hand, the tech giant also opted not to hold any big press events about the watch after their initial announcement, and marketing efforts have been relatively weak in comparison to their other products.
While Apple analyst Gene Munster has pointed to waning interest in the Apple Watch, analysts such as Trip Chowdhry of Global Equities Research has still been arguing that the Apple Watch will be a smash success, Barron’s reported. (Chowdhry even argued that every iPhone user will also be an Apple Watch user, according to Barron's.)