Banja Luka (Bosnia and Herzegovina) - The news made ​​headlines worldwide consternation: As many as seven students have become pregnant on a school trip in Bosnia - the girls were only 13 or 14 years old!
IMAGE EXPERIENCED: ALL THE GIRLS HAVE DRIFTING AWAY.
Their families would live in a small town in the province of Bosnia and Herzegovina, says the professor, who made the case publicly.
Nenad Babic, gynecologist and national health coordinator in the country part of Republika Srpska (Serb Republic), told Bild: "Can you imagine how the parents felt when they mitbekamen that their daughters were pregnant? In a small village that is a terrible situation. The students are there gone to school. The families are branded. "
EnlargeIvo Scepanovic and Nenad Babic
BILD reporter Ivo Scepanovic (l.) Has taken the gynecologist Nenad Babic in Banja Luka
Out of respect he had therefore waited before he made the story public.
Babić: "The pregnancies of students are now back half years. The abortions were necessary to protect the girls and their health. "
The identity of the students will not put Babić. He asserts: "The thing is not made up. I knew the world would react when they hear the message. I have reported them to raise awareness about the lack of sexual education of minors. These kids just were not properly informed. Neither the parents nor the school. "
How are the seven girls now?
Babić: "From Abortion and the shock of all recovered well." The girls would get help to make it back to normal life.
THE CASE
The youngest is 13: Seven students after class trip pregnant
THE YOUNGEST IS 13
7 students after class trip pregnant
A class trip in Bosnia proved fruitful trip: Seven students were pregnant during the trip.
more ...
Lack of education and the consequences - in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the an important issue.
Alone in Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 31 pregnancies were registered with underage girls in the previous year. With a population of fewer than 300 000 people.
According to the daily "Dnevni avaz" the number of sexually active underage girls has increased considerably in recent years. The biggest problem: 43 percent would not prevent it!
Senad Mehmedbasic, Gynaecologist from Sarajevo: "It is worrying that girl 13 years old to have sex, but that is the trend of today. But we must not allow further that our children are educated about sex on the street and not in school. "
EnlargeThe class trip with seven laden students went through the international media and made headlines worldwide consternation ©
The class trip with seven laden students went through the international media and made headlines worldwide consternation