A British-born photographer held hostage by al Qaida in Yemen has been killed in a failed rescue attempt, his sister has said.

Lucy Somers told the Associated Press that she was informed of her brother's death by FBI agents today.

Luke Somers, 33, an American citizen, was captured in the Yemeni capital Sana'a more than a year ago by the extremist Islamic group.

Luke Somers was kidnapped over a year ago by al Qaida (AP Photo/Hani Mohammed)

Earlier this week al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) issued a video with a message aimed at the US government threatening to kill the hostage if its demands were not met.

Lucy Somers said: "We ask that all of Luke's family members be allowed to mourn in peace."

Last week the US said it had attempted a rescue operation to free a number of hostages, including Mr Somers, but that he had not been at the site of the raid.

The family of Mr Somers, who was captured in September 2013, had earlier pleaded for him to be released.

In an online video Miss Somers described her older brother as a romantic who "always believes the best in people." She added: "Please let him live."

His father Michael said Mr Somers was "a good friend of Yemen and the Yemeni people".

It came after the release of the AQAP video which begins with a reading in Arabic from Nasser bin Ali al Ansi, an AQAP official, before Mr Somers appears and gives a statement in English.

He said: "My name is Luke Somers. I'm 33 years old. I was born in England, but I carry American citizenship and have lived in America for most of my life.

"It's now been well over a year since I've been kidnapped in Sana'a. Basically, I'm looking for any help that can get me out of this situation. I'm certain that my life is in danger.

"So as I sit here now, I ask if anything can be done, please let it be done. Thank you very much."

Al Ansi gave the US government three days to meet the demands or "otherwise, the American hostage held by us will meet his inevitable fate".

The three-minute video also features Ansi speaking about American activity in Afghanistan, Somalia and Iraq as well as recent air strikes in Syria.

It follows similar videos by another extremist militant group, Islamic State (IS), which has already killed two British hostages and three American hostages in videos released on social media.

IS has posted a series of videos online showing the separate murders of US journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, US aid worker Peter Kassig and two British aid workers, David Haines and Alan Henning.

Footage claiming to show Mr Henning's murder appeared on the internet just days after the UK joined US-led air strikes against the terrorists in Iraq.

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.