IS jihadists kill 300 Iraqi soldiers in chlorine gas attack; urge killing of citizens from US-led coalition

Members of Iraqi Parliament from Diwaniyah Province report that Islamic State militants have killed over 300 soldiers using chlorine gas for the first time in Saqlawiyah, north of Fallujah.

"The terrorist organization ISIS used chlorine gas for the first time in the region of Saqlawiyah after trapping more than 400 troops, resulting in the deaths of many of them due to suffocation while the terrorist gangs detonated car bombs within the brigade headquarters.” said Islamic Dawa Party MP Ali al-Badri, at a press conference at the Iraqi parliament building.

Al-Badri continued on saying that he holds new Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi responsible for failing to immediately send army backup to the district.

Kurds: IS offensive in Syria is genocide
The number of refugees seeking shelter in Turkey from IS' advance across northeastern Syria has hit 130,000, Turkey said Monday.

Residents fleeing the frontier town of Ayn al-Arab, known in Kurdish as Kobani, and its surrounding villages said the militants were executing people of all ages in the areas they had seized.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Monday up to 150,000 Kurds had been displaced - internally and externally - since IS launched its latest offensive against Kobani last Tuesday. It also said that clashes in the area overnight had killed 10 insurgents, bringing the number of IS fighters killed to at least 39. At least 27 Kurdish fighters have died.

Meanwhile the Islamic State group called on Muslims to kill citizens of all countries taking part in the US-led anti-jihadist coalition by any available means, in a statement posted online Monday.

"If you can kill a disbelieving American or European -- especially the spiteful and filthy French -- or an Australian, or a Canadian or any other disbeliever... including the citizens of the countries that entered into a coalition against the Islamic State, then rely upon Allah, and kill him," said Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, the group's spokesman.

"Kill the disbeliever whether he is civilian or military," he said in the message, which was released in multiple languages.

Adnani's message -- which was released in an Arabic audio recording, together with transcripts in other languages including English -- gave instructions on how the killings could be carried out without military equipment.

"Smash his head with a rock, or slaughter him with a knife, or run him over with your car, or throw him down from a high place, or choke him, or poison him," the IS spokesman said. "If you are unable to do so, then burn his home, car, or business. Or destroy his crops. If you are unable to do so, then spit in his face."

Adnani praised militants in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, calling on them to "cut the throats" of those fighting for President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.

"O America, O allies of America, and O crusaders, know that the matter is more dangerous than you have imagined and greater than you have envisioned," he said.

"We have warned you that today we are in a new era, an era where the (Islamic) State, its soldiers, and its sons are leaders, not slaves."

"We will conquer your Rome, break your crosses, and enslave your women, by the permission of Allah, the Exalted."

And he mocked the US air campaign, saying "Are America and all its allies from amongst the crusaders and atheists unable to come down to the ground?"

Addressing Obama, Adnani said: "You claimed... that America would not be drawn to a war on the ground. No, it will be drawn and dragged. It will come down to the ground and it will be led to its death, grave, and destruction."

IS has seized at least 64 villages around Kobani since Tuesday, using heavy arms and thousands of fighters. It executed at least 11 civilians on Saturday, including at least two boys, the Observatory said.

"ISIL (another term for IS) are continuing to advance. Every place they pass through they kill, wound and kidnap people. Many people are missing and we believe they were kidnapped,” Welat Avar, a doctor, told Reuters by telephone from Kobani.

A Kurdish politician from Turkey who visited Kobani on Saturday said IS' offensive is comparable to a genocide.

“Rather than a war this is a genocide operation ... They are going into the villages and cutting off the heads of one or two people and showing them to the villagers,” Ibrahim Binici, a deputy from Turkey’s pro-Kurdish HDP party, told Reuters.

Waiting for Obama's General Assembly speech
The head of the Syrian parliament, Mohammad al-Jihad, called on Sunday to the United States to cooperate with Damascus in the fight against IS rather than form an alliance with countries that support terrorism, referring to Saudi Arabia and other countries that support Syrian opposition groups seeking to topple President Bashar al-Assad.

Meanwhile, the United States, which has carried out airstrikes against IS in Iraq, has said it is prepared to extend them into Syria.

US Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power said on Sunday that other countries were willing to join Washington in launching air strikes in Syria against IS militants. “We will not do the air strikes alone,” she told CBS' "Face the Nation." “But we’re going to leave it to other nations to announce for themselves what their specific commitments to the coalition are going to be.”

Power told ABC's "This Week" there was universal support for "degrading and destroying" Islamic state. "I will make you a prediction," Power said. "We will not do the air strikes alone if the president decides to do the air strikes."

Obama will give a speech at the UN General Assembly on Wednesday to make the case again for world action against Islamic State.