A schoolboy who was almost killed when he was knocked out by a massive electrical shock claims to have developed a superpower.

Nikolai Kryaglyachenko, 12, was walking home after school when he lent briefly against the lamppost that was live from a faulty wire, and was blasted across the pavement.

But when he woke up the next day he found coins that had been on the mattress stuck to his body.

His power to attract metal mirrors that of Magneto’s – a villain from Marvel comics.

Pic shows: Schoolboy Nikolai Kryaglyachenko who was almost killed when he was knocked out by a massive electrical shock claims he now has superpowers like those of Marvel's Magneto.nnA schoolboy who was almost killed when he was knocked out by a massive electrical shock from a loose wire on a street lamp claims he now has superpowers like those of Marvel's Magneto.nnNikolai Kryaglyachenko, 12, had been walking home after school when he lent briefly against the lamppost that was live from a faulty wire, and was blasted across the pavement.nnHe said: "When I came round I felt groggy but managed to get home and told my mum what had happened. When I woke up the next day and got out of bed I found some coins that had been lying on the mattress had stuck to my body. Then when I was having breakfast and dropped my spoon, it stuck to my chest."nnHe said he was a keen fan of comics and, believing that maybe he had developed some sort of super magnetic power to attract metal like Magneto, had decided to put it to the test.nnHe said: "I can do things I couldn't do before but I don't have a lot of control over it. Even when I do not want to do it, I still attract things. Once I even attracted a glass - it just moved towards me."nnNikolai added that he has now decided instead of a fireman he wants to be a superhero when he is older, saying that he would want to do something that helped people, and the job would certainly fulfil that role.nnHe has also found himself one of the most popular boys at school with many of his classmates asking him to demonstrate his superpowers, and Nikolai even claims that he seems to be able to share his power.nnAccording to his classmates, he can influence others so that other people turn into live magnets as well.nnNikolai's classmate, Vika Balandina, said: "I could even hang a ladle on my nose."nnStories about "living magnets" began to appear at least in the middle of the 19th century. In 2004, the story of a Russian factory worker Leonid Tenkaev and his family received extensive media coverage when he appeared to obtain the ability to attract objects after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster.nnAlthough people who have the ability to attract metal items are commonly referred to as "magnets," many of them can also hold plastic, glass, wood and paper items on their body.nnOnly some of them develop a "preference" for a particular material. In 1990, as many as 300 "living magnets" gathered for a conference in Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria, after young woman Marinela Brankova demonstrated her amazing ability on TV. The woman could hold 7 kilos of metal on a vertical palm.nnScientists say however that rather than people being magnetic, it is probably nothing more than unusually sticky skin.nn(ends)n
Spoon face powers (Picture: CEN)
Nikolai said: ‘I can do things I couldn’t do before but I don’t have a lot of control over it. Even when I do not want to do it, I still attract things. Once I even attracted a glass – it just moved towards me.’

He added that he has now decided instead of a fireman he wants to be a superhero when he is older.

Nikolai even claims that he seems to be able to share his power and can influence others so that other people turn into live magnets as well.

Pic shows: Schoolboy Nikolai Kryaglyachenko who was almost killed when he was knocked out by a massive electrical shock claims he now has superpowers like those of Marvel's Magneto.nnA schoolboy who was almost killed when he was knocked out by a massive electrical shock from a loose wire on a street lamp claims he now has superpowers like those of Marvel's Magneto.nnNikolai Kryaglyachenko, 12, had been walking home after school when he lent briefly against the lamppost that was live from a faulty wire, and was blasted across the pavement.nnHe said: "When I came round I felt groggy but managed to get home and told my mum what had happened. When I woke up the next day and got out of bed I found some coins that had been lying on the mattress had stuck to my body. Then when I was having breakfast and dropped my spoon, it stuck to my chest."nnHe said he was a keen fan of comics and, believing that maybe he had developed some sort of super magnetic power to attract metal like Magneto, had decided to put it to the test.nnHe said: "I can do things I couldn't do before but I don't have a lot of control over it. Even when I do not want to do it, I still attract things. Once I even attracted a glass - it just moved towards me."nnNikolai added that he has now decided instead of a fireman he wants to be a superhero when he is older, saying that he would want to do something that helped people, and the job would certainly fulfil that role.nnHe has also found himself one of the most popular boys at school with many of his classmates asking him to demonstrate his superpowers, and Nikolai even claims that he seems to be able to share his power.nnAccording to his classmates, he can influence others so that other people turn into live magnets as well.nnNikolai's classmate, Vika Balandina, said: "I could even hang a ladle on my nose."nnStories about "living magnets" began to appear at least in the middle of the 19th century. In 2004, the story of a Russian factory worker Leonid Tenkaev and his family received extensive media coverage when he appeared to obtain the ability to attract objects after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster.nnAlthough people who have the ability to attract metal items are commonly referred to as "magnets," many of them can also hold plastic, glass, wood and paper items on their body.nnOnly some of them develop a "preference" for a particular material. In 1990, as many as 300 "living magnets" gathered for a conference in Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria, after young woman Marinela Brankova demonstrated her amazing ability on TV. The woman could hold 7 kilos of metal on a vertical palm.nnScientists say however that rather than people being magnetic, it is probably nothing more than unusually sticky skin.nn(ends)n
Note: The braces are held together with trousers, not magnetism (Picture: CEN)