Some iPhone 6 users say they are literally pulling out their hair.

Users claim the new Apple device catches strands of hair between the phone's screen and the metal frame, pulling beard hair and head hair out when they move the phone away from their head. People took to Twitter using the hashtags #hairgate and #beardgate to voice their grievances.

This newest "gate" follows complaints a few weeks ago that the phone bends under pressure, an issue that became known as #Bendgate.

"If you buy an iPhone 6, you better be totally bald #HairGate," @redletter tweeted.

iPhone 6 user @philquinn1 tweeted a photo of his phone with one strand of beard hair caught. "#hairgate is real- sort of. This is from my beard on my iPhone 6. I will say that it took several swipes. #ouch," he wrote.

"#HairGate is very real. Have experienced it a few times myself with the iPhone 6. Didn't know that was a thing until today," @abcdedgar tweeted.

Some have made fun of the hair situation. Doctored images of people using phones to shave legs and beards made their way around the Web with the tag lines "Our best phone and our best shave," and "Stay smooth: iPhone 6."

And Razor company Gillette saw an advertising opportunity and took it.

"Your phone may be smarter than ever, but leave the shaving to the experts. #beardgate," tweeted @Gillette.

Plenty of people expressed doubt about the whole thing, too.

"I have big curly hair that gets caught in EVERYTHING, and it has never been caught in my iPhone 6. I say #hairgate was started by Samsung," @JustAlly tweeted.

"I can report the gap between the front glass and aluminium does not exist," Forbes' Gordon Kelly wrote in an article dismissing the most recent iPhone "gate."

"There is a bevel, but the glass front panel is actually fused to the aluminum and the tiny gap you do see is significantly narrower than a human hair," he wrote.

Mashable created a video that disputes the complaints. It shows people rubbing the phone on their hair and faces. "We've gone with beards and curly hair and long hair, short hair, your hair, my hair," reporter Christina Warren said in the video.

"Hairgate is not a thing," she said.

When reached, Apple would not comment on the situation.

Follow @lagrisham on Twitter

More: