SEOUL — Early signs yesterday indicated that Mr Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader who has been absent from public view for more than a month, skipped an important annual ritual, which was likely to fuel further speculation about his whereabouts and even his grip on power.

Yesterday was the 69th anniversary of the founding of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea. Since taking over the top leadership position after the death of his father, longtime ruler Kim Jong-il, in late 2011, the younger Kim had marked the beginning of this important national holiday by leading top military and party officials on a midnight visit to the Kumsusan mausoleum in Pyongyang.

By Friday morning, the state-run media had made no mention of such a visit, which would have taken place at midnight on Thursday. The gigantic Kumsusan Palace of the Sun — where the mummified bodies of Mr Kim’s father and his grandfather, the founding president of North Korea, Kim Il-sung, lie in state — is among the most sacred places in the country.

During the anniversary last year, Mr Kim and his wife also attended the performance of a national choir and the dedication of new buildings. If he did the same this year, the news would probably have been reported in the North Korean media. No public appearance by the leader has been shown in the media since Sept 3.

Speculation escalated after the state-run Korean Central Television confirmed that Mr Kim was not feeling well and showed him limping during a visit to a factory in August. He was first seen limping on North Korean television in July.

While he was absent from public view, Mr Kim continued his work, sending letters to young party cadets and workers, state media said.

South Korean officials and analysts have said the young and obese North Korean leader may be suffering from health problems, such as gout. One Seoul-based website, run by North Korean defectors, recently reported that many of Mr Kim’s daily duties had been taken over by his younger sister, Ms Kim Yo-jong, while he was being treated for health issues caused by his excessive eating and drinking.

A source with access to Pyongyang’s leadership said on Thursday that Mr Kim is in firm control of his government, but had hurt his leg while inspecting military exercises, reported Reuters. The source, who has close ties to Pyongyang and Beijing, said: “He ordered all the generals to take part in drills and he took part, too. They were crawling and running and rolling around, and he pulled a tendon.”

“He injured his ankle and knee around late August or early September while drilling because he is overweight. He limped around in the beginning, but the injury worsened,” the source told Reuters.

But on the Internet, bloggers were spreading rumours, with no evidence, that Mr Kim, believed to be about 30, might have been sidelined by a coup engineered by some of the old disgruntled generals. AGENCIES