For the last few weeks, the general public has assumed that Tiger Woods hasn’t been playing on Tour because of his back and a dog shit golf game, but PGA Tour golfer, Dan Olsen — don’t worry, I haven’t heard of him before either —  is saying that’s simply not the case. Olsen went on record, during a radio interview with 730 WVFN’s David “Mad Dog” DeMarco, claiming his sources are telling him that Tiger Woods is currently serving a one month suspension for failing a drug test. Later in the interview, Olsen says his sources are “Tour players that are exempt.”

Per Olsen’s interview with 730 WVFN:

“I heard he’s on a month suspension. And it’s kind of a strong witness, a credible person that’s telling me this… It’s not testosterone, but it’s something else. I think when it is all said and done, he is going to surpass Lance Armstrong with…a…infamy.”

Olsen didn’t stop at PED’s. He even goes as far as claiming Tiger Woods has allegedly been using questionable golf balls since the late 1990s. So questionable, in fact, that Nike has paid PGA Tour staff to pick up all the balls so no one get’s the balls.

“Tiger, he’s got some problems now. One of the big problems, Nike’s been giving Tiger a ball that I would almost bet hasn’t been tested…Rory played it too. Remember when Rory signed the Nike deal and he played like an amateur for a year? He was going to fail out of the contract unless he got the high-spin ball too… So if you go to Tour events, Nike pays them, pays the Tour staff and the range staff, they pay them to get all those balls back. That’s why Tiger would never sign a golf ball and give it away… He played a ball that nobody else could play.”

I have personally seen Rory McIlroy throw his golf balls into the stands, so I don’t know how valid this ball claim is. But, WOW. Dan Olsen must have very few fucks left to give if he’s publicly calling out Tiger Woods as a cheater on multiple levels.

Thanks to BroBible writer and PGA Tour caddie, Pinot Pete, for getting this interview on our radar. And while Pinot Pete could not corroborate Olsen’s claim — nor would he probably want to, because LAWSUITS — he did say, “I’ve known Dan Olsen for 10 years. And in all that time, I’ve never known him to stretch the truth.” So there’s that.