A few years ago it may have seemed rather impossible for the relationship between Apple and Samsung to improve, but 2014 was and continues to be a year full of surprises. After Apple and Samsung withdrew all patent infringement lawsuits (except for those in the US) earlier this summer, the collaboration between the two tech giants seemed to have grown healthier.

Now, industry sources suggest that this partnership will tighten even further, as Samsung is expected to supply more components for the Cupertino-based giant, for both the iPhone 6 as well as the Apple Watch.

iPhone 6 and Even Apple Watch To Feature Samsung Components (Rumor)
iPhone 6 and Even Apple Watch To Feature Samsung Components (Rumor)
iPhone 6 and Apple Watch to feature Samsung-made Components

A fresh report from Korea suggests that iPhone 6 units which will be manufactured in the future will make use of batteries manufactured by Samsung SDI. In addition, sources also consider the possibility that Apple will reach out to Samsung in order to employ the Korean tech giant’s NAND flash.

Apparently, Apple’s initial plans were to use Samsung’s NAND flash for the iPhone 6, but because the two companies have failed to agree on the prices, Apple has decided to use Toshiba’s TLC NAND flash in the 128 GB iPhone 6, and various other components manufactured by SK Hynix, Toshiba and SanDisk on the 64 GB variant. However, since the TLC NAND flash on the 64 and 128 GB iPhone 6 and 6 Plus proved to cause headaches, sources say that Apple might strike a deal with Samsung in order to supply both the NAND flash and the DRAM of future-to-be-manufactured iPhone 6 units. In addition, some industry insiders speculate that both companies are currently jointly developing communications chips for the next-gen iPhone.



 
As for the Apple Watch, the same report suggests that Apple already discussed with Samsung in regards to the supply of application processors for the wearable device, which is set to hit the market in early 2015.

It looks like the emerging Chinese smartphone manufacturers have become powerful enough to persuade both Apple and Samsung to put some of their differences aside for the(ir) greater good. These are odd times we live in, no doubt.