Jeny Chang for BuzzFeed / Via Drug Policy Alliance data

NEW YORK CITY — The New York Police Department will no longer arrest people for low-level marijuana possession, according to people with knowledge of the city’s drug strategy who spoke on condition of anonymity.

The NYPD will issue violation summonses to people caught with marijuana — instead of putting them in handcuffs and taking them to a precinct. The summonses will require people to appear in court at a later date and pay a fine.

Few details on the new policy were immediately available, but an official with one of the city’s five district attorneys offices confirmed to BuzzFeed News on Monday that the change “is happening.” The official added that “burning marijuana” would still be cause for arrest, but that having the drug in a public place would not.

The NYPD and Mayor Bill de Blasio’s office did not immediately respond to requests for comment, but are expected to officially announce the new policy at a news conference on Monday.

Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance​ ​said​ Monday​ he supported the change two years ago and still does. “This policy – by diverting thousands of cases from criminal court – will also keep low-level offenders, particularly teens, from an arrest and all its attendant consequences, including a night or more in jail,” he said.

The new policy, which was first reported by the New York Times, would bring about a sea change in the way the city is policed. Misdemeanor-level marijuana possession accounts for a large percentage of the city’s arrests, a vast majority of which happen to young black or Latino men living in poor neighborhoods.

Some public defenders praised the policy.

“This is a huge improvement,” Lisa Schreibersdorf, executive director of Brooklyn Defender Services, told BuzzFeed News. “Summonses don’t get you fingerprinted. This will be better for people who are vulnerable to collateral consequences, like immigrants.”

Still, Schreibersdorf cautioned that the policy will not fulfill its goal unless the NYPD relaxes its identification requirements for summonses. Immigrants and teenagers often do not carry valid identification, she said, which often means that they cannot be processed for a summons. She added that the policy does not address the root cause of the problem — namely, that police officers in New York routinely stop people without probable cause.

“Having summonses is an improvement for people who are already being stopped, but that doesn’t mean they should be stopped in the first place,” she said. “The problem, from my perspective, is that stopping people without cause is unconstitutional.”

Advocates also warned that the new policy could result in an increased number of arrest warrants, which are issued to people who fail to show to court for a summons. As the New York Times reported, up to a quarter of people issued summons fail to appear for their court appointments. As a consequence, there are currently 1.2 million open bench warrants in New York City — about one per every eight residents.

Possession of less than 25 grams of marijuana has not been a crime in New York State since 1977. The NYPD made 59,000 arrests for misdemeanor possession in 2010.

Under current law, the only way to get arrested and charged with a misdemeanor for having less than 25 grams of marijuana is to display it “in public view.” The legal definition of that term, however, is ambiguous. “Public view” can mean smoking pot in a public place, but it can also mean that a police officer stopped you, frisked you, and pulled a small bag of marijuana from your pocket.

When the bag leaves your pocket, it has technically entered public view, and the officer can legally arrest you and charge you with a misdemeanor — even though you had less than the decriminalized amount. This broad interpretation of “public view” helped low-level marijuana possession become one of the NYPD’s most commonly used arrest charges during stop-and-frisks.

The correlation between marijuana arrests and stop-and-frisk became apparent after 2011, when a U.S. District Court declared the policing tactic an unconstitutional form of racial profiling. By 2013, the NYPD was making only 28,000 marijuana possession arrests — still a large number, but 47% less than in 2010.

A recent study by the nonprofit Drug Policy Alliance found that upwards of 86% of all low-level marijuana arrests made in 2014 affected black people or Latinos — even though national studies have shown that white people are just as likely to smoke marijuana regularly, and slightly more likely to have tried it.

The report also found that the geography of the arrests is highly segregated, with dominantly white neighborhoods seeing fewer arrests than neighborhoods of color with similar per-capita incomes.

These stark race and class disparities in drug law enforcement became a sore point for Mayor de Blasio, who as a candidate promised to end discriminatory policing. They also drove Ken Thompson, the Brooklyn district attorney, to announce in July that his office would no longer prosecute low-level marijuana possession, opting instead to dismiss most of such cases.

Still, the NYPD defended the high number of arrests, with Willam Bratton, de Blasio’s police commissioner, saying that Thompson’s decision would not affect the NYPD’s approach to marijuana possession. The policy to be announced on Monday will mark the first time the current administration will take concerted action to address the disparities in marijuana arrests.

In an interview with the New York Times, Thompson said he was worried that the new policy could harm those it was intended to help by removing prosecutors from the picture. This is because a prosecutor can opt to dismiss a misdemeanor, but cannot do the same for a violation.

But as new report by the Vera Institute shows, prosecutorial review can cut both ways. The Institute analyzed data provided by the Manhattan District Attorney and found that black people and Latinos were “much more likely to receive a sentence offer including a jail of prison term” than white defendants in similar circumstances.

In the case of misdemeanor marijuana possession, the Vera report found, black people arraigned in Manhattan were 19% more likely to receive jail or prison time than people from all other ethnicities. By contrast, defendants arrested in Brooklyn could expect their cases to be dismissed. The new policy is expected to standardize procedures across the city.

More details on the new policy are expected soon. De Blasio and Bratton are scheduled to make an announcement together Monday at 3 p.m.

This is a developing story. Check back for updates and follow BuzzFeed News on Twitter.