British man suspected of appearing in videos of hostages being beheaded

The British Isis militant suspected of appearing in videos showing the beheading of US and UK hostages has been named in reports as Mohammed Emwazi from London.

The Washington Post published a lengthy article naming the masked man known as Jihadi John, who spoke in the videos with a British accent.

Emwazi, believed to be aged 27, was known to MI5 as a "person of interest" in 2011, according to the BBC. It reports that his name was not revealed at an earlier stage for "operational reasons".

One of Emwazi's friends was quoted by The Post as saying: “I have no doubt that Mohammed is Jihadi John."

The Post claims that Emwazi is from an affluent family in west London and graduated from the University of Westminster with a degree in computer programming. It says he is believed to have travelled to Syria in 2012 and later joined Isis.

An international manhunt led by the FBI was launched in August 2014 when he was thought to have appeared in video footage showing the beheading of American photojournalist James Foley.

Asim Qureshi, research director at the rights group, CAGE, said there was an "extremely strong resemblance", between the militant in the videos and Emwazi. Mr Qureshi says he was in contact with Emwazi before he left for Syria.

Foley's death was followed by the brutal killing of four more UK and US aid workers and journalists, all of whom were shown in footage next to a balaclava clad militant dressed in black, believed to be Jihadi John.

He is thought to have been featured in videos threatening the lives of Japanese hostages Haruna Yukawa and Kenji Goto, who were later killed by the extremist group.

The name 'Jihadi John' came after it was reported that hostages referred to the militant as 'John' during their time captive.

Emwazi is reported to have started to become radicalised after a trip he planned to Tanzania. He and two friends were detained by police overnight after landing in Dar es Salaam and eventually deported.

It is claimed that Emwazi told friends he was flown to Amsterdam where an officer from MI5 accused him of trying to reach Somalia, where the militant group al-Shabaab operates.

Mr Qureshi says he met with Emwazi in the autumn after he returned from this trip to discuss what had taken place. “Mohammed was quite incensed by his treatment, that he had been very unfairly treated,” Mr Qureshi told The Post.

The Post reports that Emwazi then moved to Kuwait, his birthplace, and returned to London twice before being detained by counterterrorism officials in Britain, who took his fingerprints and searched his belongings.

He was allegedly prevented from returning to Kuwait, telling Mr Qureshi in an email: “I had a job waiting for me and marriage to get started, but now I feel like a prisoner, only not in a cage, in London."

Mr Qureshi last spoke to Emwazi in 2012 when he contacted him for advice. He felt “actions were taken to criminalize him and he had no way to do something against these actions", according to Mr Qureshi.

One friend said he believed Emwazi had wanted to teach English in Saudi Arabia but had been unsuccessful shortly before he disappeared.

“He at some stage reached the point where he was really just trying to find another way to get out," the friend was quoted as saying.

The Metropolitan Police said in a statement: "We are not going to confirm the identity of anyone at this stage or give an update on the progress of this live counter-terrorism investigation."

The Home Office said it would neither confirm nor deny reports at this stage.