The Canadian government said on Sunday it was investigating reports that a Canadian-Israeli woman who joined Kurdish militias fighting in northern Syria has been captured by Islamic State (Isis) fighters.

According to a blog linked to Isis, several female fighters who fought alongside the Kurds have been taken prisoner, including Gill Rosenberg, a Canadian-born resident of Tel Aviv. Israel Radio reported Kurdish sources denying the claims, saying Rosenberg was not in the area when it was attacked.

A Canadian government spokesman said in a statement his country was “pursuing all appropriate channels” as it sought further information and was in touch with local authorities.

Asked by an Israeli television station about the reports, the Israeli defence minister, Moshe Ya’alon, said: “I cannot confirm that and I hope that it isn’t true.” The Shin Bet, Israel’s general security service, told the Jerusalem Post: “There are no further details at this stage”.

Rosenberg, 31, joined Kurdish troops fighting Isis earlier this month. A former pilot who served in the Israeli Defence Force (IDF), she reportedly contacted Kurdish fighters over the internet before travelling through Iraq to train at one of their camps on the Syrian border.

In an interview with Israel Radio aired in November, Rosenberg said she was training with Kurdish guerrillas with the intention of fighting in Syria. “They are our brothers. They are good people. They love life, a lot like us, really,” she said.

On 20 November, a message posted to a Facebook page in Rosenberg’s name said: “My Facebook account and friend requests are being managed by someone else until I have access again in apx [sic] 2 weeks time on or around week of [8 December]. Please do not message as this is not me. Thank you.”

Messages of concern were being posted on the Facebook page this weekend.

Isis, which has killed five western hostages, is believed to be holding 39 Indian construction workers captive. Last week the group was reported to have executed two Iraqi women who were former parliamentary candidates.