Seven girls from a Bosnian school, all aged between 13 and 14, have fallen pregnant during a five-day school trip to the country's capital, Sarajevo.

The school is based in the Bosnian town of Banja Luka, and took 28 teenage girls on an educational visit to the city with intentions to visit museums and places of historical significance.

But it seems the unsupervised girls got up to a lot more than that while they were staying away from home. The case has triggered serious discussion about the state of Bosnia's sex education, with the number of 13-15-year-old girls having underage sex having seen a dramatic spike in recent times.

A Sarajevo-based gynaecologist, Senad Mehmedbasic, commented on how concerning the increase in underage pregnancies is. "That is the trend of today," he said. "But we can not continue to allow our children to be educated about sex on the street and not in school."

And continuing his point that education is the key to reducing the number of girls having underage sex, he said:

"It is obvious that children do not have enough knowledge of health education so they engage in such activities, not knowing the consequences. We have to be more direct in the educational system, it must not be allowed that street teaches children about intimate matters, and that they are later slapped by life."
The parents of the girls are now understandably furious that such lack of care was taken to keep an eye on their children's activities. But the National Coordinator for Reproductive Health of the Republika Srpska, Nenad Babici, believes the blame shouldn't lie with the teachers on the trip, but the "parental neglect" that caused the lack of reproductive understanding in the young girls.

We're sure there is some truth in what he says - that it is the duty of parents as well as schools to inform their children of the dangers of unprotected sex both at such a young age, and throughout their adult lives. But for 7 out of 28 pupils - that's a staggering 25% of girls who attended the trip - to have become pregnant is surely primarily down to the neglect of teachers, who should have made it their duty to keep an eye on the girls for the duration?