VENICE BEACH, Calif. --You've probably heard Apple is launching its latest i-device, a new Apple Watch, in April and that it will start at $350.

But did you know there are three editions of the watch? What no one knows, outside of Apple, is how much the top of the line "Watch Edition" will sell for.

We've seen online reports that it could sell for as much as $4,000. Maybe more.

So we got to wondering: How much would consumers pay for the top-of-the-line Apple Watch?

Not much, as we recently found out in chats with consumers here.

"I'd get the $350 model," says Ashlea Fellows of Australia. "I wouldn't go any higher."

Thousands of dollars for a gold watch? Not for Karla Gallegos of Chile. "Too expensive. I could find a watch made of gold for $2,000," she said.

Juan Frias of New York would drop $1,000. "I like gold watches," he says. "I'm a teacher, and I wouldn't have to look down at my wrist. My daughter texts me, I can look and nobody can say, `Hey, you're on the phone.'"

Apple touts the high-end Apple Watch as sporting a 18-karat gold case, which it says is twice as hard as standard gold. And it's protected by sapphire crystal, advertised as almost impossible to break, unlike the gorilla glass of the iPhone.

In mid-2014, many analysts expected Apple to use sapphire glass on the iPhone 6, but that didn't happen. Apple wasn't happy with the sapphire being produced by its factory near Phoenix, which has since been shut down. The company hasn't said where its new sapphire is being produced.

Estimates online for how much Apple will charge for the top-line watch are all over the map. Website Grail-watch.com goes as high as $10,000. "t's pretty much impossible to find a gold watch for under $10,000 in any size," notes the site.

But even at $4,000 or $5,000, the price tag will make it easily the most expensive item at the Apple Store. It's most expensive computer, the MacPro, starts at around $3,000.

Apple's high-priced watch will be in good company -- and even if it tops the most optimistic estimates, it will be still be way cheaper than the gold standard of luxury watches, the Rolex. Amazon's Rolex page starts at $4,000 and goes all the way up to $62,000.

But those watches don't read back texts or control your music.

With such expensive i-jewelry on display at shopping malls across the world, will it change the way people shop at the Apple Store? Will folks be wary of walking out of the store with a multi-thousand-dollar gold watch on their wrists?

Paul Wallace of Long Beach, Calif., admits that sporting a gold Apple watch on his wrist would make him a target. "It would….but you've got to go Gold," he said. "If you've got it, flaunt it."

Follow Jefferson Graham on Twitter