The sale of a private island in Lake Mälaren has received international attention, thanks to the assertion that it is Tiger Woods who sells it. But that's not true - the true owner is a Swedish millionaire.

"If you have 45 million over and want to buy tiger woods house on an island in Lake Mälaren? Then it exactly right now you have the chance. "

Thus wrote radio station Mix Megapol programs last morning on Facebook on January 8, and linked to an object in the broker real estate agency. Anyone who clicked on the link found the island of Great Rullingen, a luxurious island dream equipped with everything from wine cellars to the ancient castle.

At last morning's mail was shared over 300 times, and it was not just those who let themselves be impressed by the island. Even internationally the news that golf star Tiger Woods is now selling its Swedish island become widespread - it is published by the British The Telegraph and the Daily Mail , US New York Post o ch LA Times , and Yahoo .

The only problem with the story is that Göteborgs-Posten drew attention already January 9, that the island is not at all belong to Tiger Woods. It says Johan Vesterberg on estate agency, who do not know how it is that the data started to circulate.

- We have had this island for sale in a few months, and it started to pop up articles around the world that it was Tiger Woods who owned it. How it has started, we have no idea, says Vesterberg.

In several articles written about the island quoted a Sabine Rollinger, an employee of the broker Vladi Private Islands. To The Telegraph, she says for example that Woods took the island, but that after his divorce with Swedish exhustrun Elin Nordegren "did not need it anymore."

But when Viral Inspector reaches Rollinger she writes in an email, "to avoid misunderstanding" that the island is not owned by Tiger Woods, but by a "Swedish millionaire".

- He has commissioned us to sell it for him. As we understood it was designed originally for Tiger Woods and his wife. When their marriage suddenly ran out, he needed, however, it no longer writes Rollinger in an email.

It rejects, however, Johan Vesterberg on estate agency.

- It is not owned by Tiger Woods, and what we know, he has never owned it. The present owners have built it on the island now, and he did not for Tiger Woods, but for my part, he says.

It's not the first time that Big roll no is up for sale. Already in 2011 attracted the attention of the media when it could be sold for 75 million. However, there was no one who bought the island at the time, and now the price has thus been reduced by 30 million.

If you are conspiratorially inclined, of course, think it is very appropriate to task about Tiger Woods now gives the sales international attention. But that's not the broker real estate agency who planted the story, at least not according to Johan Vesterberg.

- It is definitely not a negative to get noticed in this way. It is not no way we're working on, but we will not say no to the attention even if it is not true, he says.