KANSAS CITY, Mo. —Research Medical Center said a patient who came to its Brookside Campus emergency department for treatment does not have the symptom profile of Ebola.

The hospital issued the statement to stop rumors and online reports that the patient was being treated for the disease.

"These reports are inaccurate," said HCA Midwest Health spokeswoman Chris Hamele.

She said the patient was taken to the hospital's main campus, where he being treated appropriately for his illness and is responding well in good condition. The man had one of the symptoms of Ebola and had recently traveled to Nigeria.

The symptoms of the disease can include a high fever, diarrhea, vomiting, bleeding and bruising.

Local health officials have said it's extremely unlikely that the patient has Ebola.

Family members with patients in the emergency room at Research Medical Center said it was business as usual there on Sunday.

"If it's something we should have been concerned about, I think they would have said something," said patient Collette Harvin.

Marcus Mitchem, who was visiting a patient, said Ebola is a scary thing to think about.

"The most concerning thing about the Ebola virus is no known cure. You get it, you die. That causes concern for everybody," he said.

Several Americans who contracted Ebola while in Africa have returned to the United States and responded well to treatment, in part due to safety protocols at American hospitals.

Hamele said Research Medical Center has standard infectious disease precautions, and is well-equipped and well prepared to implement them.

"As health care providers, our job is to care for sick patients and we will continue to provide high quality care to our community as we always have," Hamele said.

Harvin said she's not really afraid about Ebola.

"We have measures here. We have medicine," she said. "If we were in Africa or something like that, I'd be a little more worried."

The Kansas City Health Department said in a tweet that local hospitals have procedures to protect patients, staff and visitors from infectious diseases. It said it has complete faith that Research Medical Center is taking the appropriate steps.

"It's important to remember," the Health Department tweeted. "You cannot get Ebola unless you handle bodily fluids of someone who has Ebola."

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also reminds the public that it's not spread through casual contact or the air.

More than 3,000 people have died from the outbreak. About 2,000 U.S. troops are already helping Ebola-affected countries. On Friday, the Pentagon announced that number could grow to 4,000.