A newspaper report that Kim Jong-un has been hospitalized for ankle surgery has fuelled new theories about the North Korean leader’s long absence from the public eye.

Kim has not been seen in public in almost a month and missed a session of parliament on Sept. 25 for the first time since coming to power almost three years ago. Since an event with key officials in July, he has been seen walking with a limp. In an unusual acknowledgment last Friday, North Korean state television said he was experiencing “discomfort.”

Details from the Hermit Kingdom on Kim’s state of health are scarce and hard to verify, but the new details reported by the Chosun Ilbo newspaper paint a broader picture of what may have happened to him. Here is what is suspected so far.

Kim has rapidly gained weight since coming to power after his father died of a heart attack in 2011, photos released by state media show. He is shown below in photos released by the Korean Central News Agency on Oct. 9, 2010, at left, and July 28, 2014, at right:

Kim is believed to be between 5-foot-2 and 5-foot-9, possibly weighing 280 pounds. Chosun Ilbo cited a recent visitor to North Korea (whom it did not identify) as saying that Kim’s weight gain, combined with an intense tour schedule of factories and military bases, as factors in his ankle injury.

Kim cracked bones in his ankles after neglecting an injury sustained during field supervisions in June, the source cited by Chosun Ilbo said. The source said Kim had surgery and is recovering at Bongwha Clinic, an exclusive hospital for high-ranking party members, according to the newspaper.

Surgery to the ankles could be consistent with gout, Alastair Hepburn, a consultant rheumatologist and a Medical Trustee of the U.K. Gout Society. “It’s unusual but it’s possible,” Hepburn said in a telephone interview. Severe gout can damage the joints, making an operation necessary, he said.

North Korea observers speculate Kim’s weight and family background may have contributed to his condition. “Based on his gait, it appears he has gout – something [due to] diet and genetic predisposition that has affected other members of the Kim family,” said Michael Madden, an expert on the North Korean leadership and contributor to the 38 North website.

Gout is a form of arthritis that isn’t fatal, though it can be agonizingly painful. The condition is caused by a buildup of a waste product in the blood called uric acid, which normally is eliminated from the body through urine, according to the U.K.’s National Health Service. Uric acid can cause needle-like crystals to form, which seep into joints and cause inflammation.

“Gout is a very painful and debilitating condition,” said Hepburn of the U.K. Gout Society. “It can lead to a situation when limping becomes obvious because of the pain. A person can be quite well for some time, and then there may be sudden flareups, which cause more pain.”

Chosun Ilbo’s report also said that Kim was believed to be wearing shoes with Cuban heels, a style of two-inch high-heeled men’s footwear, to make him taller and give him a more authoritative appearance. Kim is shown below wearing such shoes in a 2012 appearance with his wife, Ri Sol-ju: