Is Kim Jong Un's sister running North Korea?

That's the latest question on the minds of North Korea watchers amid a storm of rumors that have built up in the weeks since Kim's last public appearance on Sept. 3. Other rumors suggest he is being treated for gout and that he has been hospitalized due to a cheese allergy.

With so little hard news leaking out of the Hermit Kingdom, it's impossible to confirm any of this — including the rumor that Kim's little sister, Kim Yo Jong, is the new show-runner. But there is evidence that she has upped her political profile over the past few years, and she may be one of the few people on the planet with direct access to North Korea's leader. Here's what we've been able to mine.

The two were born to Ko Yong Hui, a mistress of former North Korean supreme leader Kim Jong Il. Kim Jong Un was the middle child of this relationship, second to an older brother, while Kim Yo Jong is the former supreme leader's youngest child.

Image: RIA Novosti, Dmitry Astakhov, Presidential Press Service/Associated Press

The pair grew up in Ko Yong Hui's residence in Pyongyang as well as in Switzerland, where they both attended school for some time, and have a "very good relationship," Michael Madden, who operates a blog called North Korea Leadership Watch, told Mashable. At one point, the two appeared in the same school recital.

She may have started working for the Korean Workers Party, the political establishment of which Kim Jong Un is the leader, around 2008, when her dad still ran the country. She reportedly worked to clear the way for her older brother to succeed her father once he died, though that's about all we know about their relationship.

Kim Yo Jong was born on Sept. 26, 1987. By the time she was eight she was off to Berne, Switzerland, to attend school near where her older brothers were doing the same.

She came back to North Korea roughly four years later, but not much is known about her activities until 2008, when she began to participate in the country's politics.

“She was one of the only ones that was distinctly interested in politics, in North Korean politics," Madden said. Her father, according to Madden, used to go around telling his friends about his daughter's sharp political mind.

Kim Yo-Jong, Kim Jong Un's younger sister..thought to be now running DPRK. pic.twitter.com/qTw0VP0e2t

— North Korea (@NorthKoreaNews1) October 7, 2014

Like many things about Kim Yo Jong and North Korea in general, her role in politics isn't clear.

She may have started working for her father or her aunt back in 2008 as a "junior" member of the party, according to NK Leadership Watch. When succession plans were finalized for her father's eventual passing, the powers that be reportedly gave her a significant part to play, possibly a position within her dad's personal secretariat or on the National Defense Commission.

She became a member of her father's inner circle by 2011, and that carried over to her brother's inner circle when Kim Jong Un took the reins later that year.

“She can get [Kim Jong Un] on the telephone, she can see him in person, that kind of thing," Madden said.

NK Leadership Watch has written that Kim Yo Jong plans her brother's appearances, "including his itineraries, schedule, logistical needs and security arrangements." This past March state media reportedly listed her as a senior official within the party — a first, according to the blog.

It's not much to go on, but Madden said that reports of turmoil at the top in North Korea are probably exaggerated. This is less likely to be a coup — and more likely, he said, that Kim Yo Jong is relaying her brother's orders while he takes a break.

But that doesn't mean the world should take their eyes off the little sister.

“Kim Jong Un is not a micromanager," Madden said. "It’s very possible she could be running a lot more things than we think.”

Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.