The identity of the couple behind the mega-successful DC Toys Collector Youtube channel has finally been uncovered. Reportedly the highest paid creators on Youtube, having raked in an estimated $5 million in 2014, DC Toys Collector is allegedly 29-year-old, Brazilian-born Daiane DeJesus, a former adult film actress known as Sandy Summers, and her husband, Messias Credido, according to the Daily Mail. DeJesus’s porn star past could explain why the mega-successful Youtuber has chosen to stay anonymous despite months-long digging from numerous media outlets covering her channel’s surprising popularity. With over 5.2 billion views to date and nearly 3.8 million subscribers, the channel is an unbridled Youtube success — the scrutiny attracted by revelations of her adult film star past may have been figured by a cautious DeJesus to potentially dampen her kid-friendly channel’s image, and ultimately, perhaps, its huge revenue stream. Former neighbors and a “close friend” are behind the revelation that the DeJesus and Credido are behind the DC Toys Collector channel. The neighbors say they only learned of DeJesus’s adult film star career, which she reportedly quit seven years ago, after they saw her participating in a photoshoot by her swimming pool. They then say they were able to confirm their suspicions after identifying her in several “graphic adult-only videos.” The videos uploaded to the DC Toys Collector channel all feature a pair of disembodied, feminine hands unpackaging new toys as a soft voice narrates. They are a part of the “unboxing” video trend, which, according to Google, saw a 57% increase in views from 2013 to 2014. “That is Daiane. She has a very childlike voice and I would recognize it anywhere,” said one of the neighbors after listening to a DC Toys Collector video. The neighbor added: “Her husband said he ran a photographic business but he never left the house. That was strange. “We just thought they were so secretive we thought something had to be going on. “Then someone said we should look at Sandy Summers’ website and it all clicked into place.” When asked if the couple were behind the DC Toys Collector channel, formerly the Disney Collector channel, the ex-wife of Credido, Maribel Barreto, said: “Yes, they are the Disney Collectors. I can’t say any more.” Credido has also been identified as the creator behind the successful BluCollector Youtube channel, whose videos are nearly identical to the DC Toys Collector channel’s videos, except that they focus on toys aimed at young boys. According to the Daily Mail, DeJesus and husband reside in Orlando, Florida, in a house located in an “upscale” gated community. The couple have an 18-month-old son and were married in December of 2013, according to records seen by the tabloid. The DC Toys Collector channel began uploading videos in July of 2011 and is currently the 168th most-subscribed channel on Youtube. New videos are uploaded to the channel daily.