The true identity of the ISIS terrorist known as "Jihadi John," who has appeared in several videos showing the beheading of hostages, reportedly has been revealed.

The Washington Post first reported Thursday, citing friends and human rights workers familiar with the case, that the man's real name is Mohammed Emwazi, a west London man who had been detained by counterterror officials in Britain at least once, in 2010. The paper also reported that Emwazi was born in Kuwait, is from a well-to-do family, graduated from college with a degree in computer programming and is thought to have traveled to Syria sometime in or around 2012.

The BBC reported that British intelligence had previously identified the man, but had chosen not to disclose his name for operational reasons.

Commander Richard Walton of the London Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism Command released a statement saying, "We have previously asked media outlets not to speculate about the details of our investigation on the basis that life is at risk. We are not going to confirm the identity of anyone at this stage or give an update on the progress of this live counter-terrorism investigation."

The masked and hooded terrorist achieved instant notoriety when he appeared in a video released by ISIS last August that showed the beheading of American journalist James Foley. At the time, many commentators and analysts remarked on the man's distinct London accent.

The man is believed to have appeared in other videos that showed the beheading of other hostages, including American journalist Steven Sotloff, British aid worker David Haines, British taxi driver Alan Henning, and American aid worker Peter Kassig, known as Abdul-Rahman after his apparent conversion to Islam in captivity.

The man's most recent appearance came last month in a video with Japanese hostages Kenji Goto and Haruna Yukawa. Both men also were killed by the terror group.

The terrorist was given the nickname "Jihadi John" after interviews with former ISIS hostages revealed him to be part of a group of British jihadists who guarded the hostages and were dubbed "The Beatles."

The BBC reported that Emwazi is believed to be an associate of a known terror suspect who traveled to Somalia in 2006, and is allegedly linked to a funding network for the Somali-based militant group Al Shabaab.

Click for more from The Washington Post.

Click for more from the BBC.