A meteorite landed "like a bomb" just missing Nicaragua's main airport and raising concerns over scientists' ability to track space objects on potential collision courses with Earth.

Officials said they "thanked God" there were no injuries as the rock landed in Managua, a sprawling city of 1.2 million people where it left a crater 12 metres (40ft) wide and five metres (16ft) deep.

The object was believed to have been a small part of the asteroid 2014 RC, nicknamed "Pitbull," which astronomers had been monitoring as it passed the planet.

Nasa currently tracks more than 11,000 asteroids that come relatively close to Earth but 2014 RC, which is the size of a large house, was only discovered on Aug 31.

It moved within 25,000 miles of the Earth's surface and had been projected to be at its nearest point over New Zealand on Sunday.

The meteorite that apparently originated from 2014 RC landed in a wooded area just before midnight on Saturday.

Its impact registered on instruments used to detect earthquakes, which regularly hit Nicaragua.

People living nearby head an an explosion and described seeing liquid, sand and dust blowing thought the air, and the smell of burning.

Jorge Santamaria, who lives near the airport, said: "I was sitting on my porch and I saw nothing, then all of a sudden I heard a large blast. We thought it was a bomb because we felt an expansive wave."

Jose Millan, of the Nicaraguan Institute of Earth Studies, said: "We need to celebrate the fact that it fell in an area where, thank God, it didn't cause any danger to the population.

"All the evidence that we've confirmed on-site corresponds exactly with a meteorite and not with any other type of event."

Nicaragua said it would be asking for assistance from international scientists, including those from the United States, to investigate.

The composition of the meteorite has yet to be determined and it was not clear if it had disintegrated on hitting the ground or been buried under the ground.

Wilfredo Strauss of the Nicaraguan Institute of Earth Studies, said: "We are convinced that this was a meteorite. We have seen the crater from the impact.

"You can see two waves on the seismic equipment). First, a small seismic wave when the meteorite hit Earth, and then another stronger one which is the impact of the sound."

Rosario Murillo, Nicaragua's First Lady and Government spokeswoman, said the object "appears to have come off an asteroid that was passing close to Earth."

In February 2013 a meteor that had not previously been detected by scientists exploded over Chelyabinsk in Central Russia, injuring more than 1,000 people.

Dr Dan Brown, an astronomy expert at Nottingham Trent University, said: "The possible meteorite impact in Nicaragua, linked with the asteroid 2014 RC which flew by Earth raises some interesting questions.

"Although the impact occurred roughly 12 hours before the asteroid passed Earth, that part of the planet was facing in the right direction for it to have been a fragment associated with it.

"If it was an unrelated object, however, then it further demonstrates how we don't really monitor all the potentially dangerous rocks out there."