Intelligence agencies hunting for identity of jihadist who murdered reporter

Reports have suggested Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, a 23-year-old from London

Abu Hussain al-Britani, 20, and Abu Abdullah al-Britani, also potential match

Young men have posed with heads and 'launched cyber attacks on West'

Security sources say they are 'zeroing in' on suspected matched

Police are preparing to raid several British homes to help establish identity

Man in video known as 'John', reportedly in British group called 'the Beatles'

Theresa May poised to bring in new laws to tackle British extremists

Three British men waging jihad in the Middle East alongside the Islamic State (IS) have emerged as potential identities for the masked extremist who killed James Foley in a brutal propaganda video.
The men, all in their early twenties, are thought to be in the IS capital of Raqqa, Syria. They enter the frame as security sources say MI5 are getting closer to discovering who the executioner, known only as 'John', could be.
The fighter, who spoke with a British accent, butchered Mr Foley, an American journalist, in front of cameras, claiming it was retaliation for U.S. air strikes on the Islamic State (formerly ISIS).

A French prisoner who was held captive by 'John' says he was part of a group of British jihadists who call themselves 'The Beatles'.
Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, 23, a former rapper from London, Abu Hussain Al-Britani, 20, a computer hacker from Birmingham, and Abu Abdullah al-Britani, in his 20s, from Portsmouth, have been mooted as identities for 'John'.
According to reports in The Sun newspaper, some of the men have similar voices, and even use similar language, to that used in the video.

Security forces have revealed that the information contained in the horrific footage has allowed them to 'zero in' on the wanted man. 
Meanwhile, police are preparing to raid the homes of several Britons in order to help establish his identity, according to a report in The Times. Their drive to find 'John' comes as the Home Secretary announced that she was poised to bring in new laws to tackle British extremists.
Bary, one of the British jihadists, has posted sickening images online of himself posing with the severed heard of a Syria soldier, accompanied by a joke.

Abu Hussain al-Britani, who lived in Birmingham, was jailed in 2012 for stealing personal information from former Prime Minister Tony Blair.
The jihadist, real name Junaid Hussian, later left for Syria, where it has been reported that he is helping mastermind jihadist cyber attacks on British banks and celebrities to further swell the IS war coffers.

Meanwhile, Abu Abdullah Al-Britani, who often uses Twitter to post pro-IS propaganda online, is believed to be behind social media accounts attempting to recruit teenagers to join fighting in the Middle East.
In June, MailOnline revealed an account on the ask.fm social media site, believed to be operated by al-Britani, which gave self-identified youths advice on how to travel to Syria and Iraq and perks of the job from working with IS.
It comes as British intelligence operatives continue to use advanced recognition software to match known suspects to 'John's' voice.
Security sources revealed to The Times that, thanks to information posted online, MI5 is now 'zeroing in' on the wanted man.
It was also revealed that police are preparing to raid the homes of several Britons to help to establish the identity of the jihadist. Meanwhile, a small group of officers from the FBI is understood to be arriving to help British forces with their investigation.
Strict security protocols have also reportedly been put in place to stop classified information leaking to the wanted jihadists or their associates. 
In an interview yesterday, Foreign Secretary Phillip Hammond said: 'Our intelligence agencies and police are studying the material that we have received.
'You wouldn't expect me to give a running commentary on that process, but we are devoting significant amounts of resource to identifying the individual.' 
He also ruled out an alliance with the Assad regime in Syria to combat the Islamic State (formerly Isis), saying that 'my enemy's enemy is not my friend'.
His statement comes as the Home Secretary announced that she was poised to bring in new laws to tackle British extremists.
Theresa May said Britain must introduce all the legal powers necessary to win the struggle against terror that is feared to last for decades.
Banning orders for extremist groups will be looked at again alongside powers to stop radical preachers.

Mrs May also underlined changes to the law that mean naturalised Britons who are fighting overseas can be stripped of their citizenship and excluded.
Yesterday it emerged that the group holding Mr Foley has demanded the release of al-Qaeda scientist Aafia Siddiqui. 
The Pakistani mother-of-three, 42, is serving 86 years in a Texas jail for plotting to spread Ebola and make a dirty bomb.

It came as Mr Foley's brother Michael urged officials to reconsider their policy of not negotiating in order to save another US journalist, Steven Sotloff.
He said: 'I hope that Jim's death pushes us to take another look at our approach.'
General Martin Dempsey, Chariman of President Obama's Joint Chiefs of Staff, yesterday warned that IS had an 'apocalyptic, end-of-days strategic vision' and could only be defeated by a coalition of partners.