Swiss cheese, Cuban heels and a gruelling political schedule have been blamed for Communist leader's injury

Video loading

North Korea dictator Kim Jong-un has undergone a hospital operation after he fractured both ankles.

The 20-stone leader of one of the world’s most impoverished countries has soared on the scales due to his love of fine wine and dining.

Kim, believed to be aged 31, is under armed guard by his personal protection team at a hospital in North Korea’s capital, Pyongyang.

One source in South Korea’s Seoul said there had been a marked increase in elite officials visiting the ward after Kim’s official car did not appear to have left Pyongyang in recent weeks.

Kim is believed to have sprained then fractured his ankles during a gruelling tour of military bases and factories in shoes with Cuban heels to give him a little more height and a physical appearance of more authority.

Painful: Kim Jong-un is believed to insist on wearing Cuban heels for official duty to appear more of an authoritarian

The 31-year-old leader got a taste for Swiss cheese while studying in Switzerland and imports vast quantities despite Western sanctions.

One intelligence source said: “He has become noticeably overweight since he came to power.”

Kim was seen limping when he visited a government establishment in a clip shown on North Korea’s Central TV.

There were earlier suggestions Kim’s obesity and binge drinking had brought on gout which confined him behind closed doors for several days.

But aides were determined to turn his health problems to good advantage, with the official Rodong Sinmun daily newspaper saying he had “laboured on” by visiting various facilities in the hot summer weather.

Kim even missed a regular session of the Supreme People’s Assembly in Pyongyang last Thursday fuelling belief he was still confined to hospital.

Craving: The North Korean leader's love of cheese has led to rapid weight gain

A Seoul government official said it was unlikely “a young man like Kim Jong-un would have missed the Supreme People’s Assembly just because he has gout.”

His absence from the assembly was followed by a rare admission by state TV, which not only showed footage of him limping but also stated that he was ill.

A team of doctors from Europe is also believed to have travelled to North Korea recently.

A political observer said "coming down closer to the level of his people" was the only way Kim was going to return to health, beat his gout, lose weight and prevent a repeat of his reported fractured ankles.

Malnutrition is widespread in North Korea, with famines often breaking out in a country still relying on foreign food aid as a result of economic mismanagement and the loss of Soviet support in the 1990s.

See Kim Jong-un out and about and on his feet in the gallery below.

VIEW GALLERY

Poll loading …