The small town of Purdon, Texas has been quarantined after a family of five tested positive for the Ebola virus.

Purdon is located just 70 miles from Dallas, Texas, and the hospital that has cared for both American Ebola patients, Thomas Eric Duncan, and Texas nurse, Nina Pham.

It has been verified that Jack Phillips returned from Dallas last week while on business. Shortly after arriving home, Mr. Phillips began exhibiting flu-like symptoms, but did not immediately go to the hospital. At this time his wife and children began showing similar symptoms, which provoked the family to get tested. Doctors then learned that Phillips, his wife, and three children had contracted Ebola haemorrhagic fever.

Facts About Purdon, Texas And The Ebola Quarantine

133 residents

Unincorporated community in Navarro County

Originally Known As Belle Point

Ebola is spread through contact with bodily fluids of an infected individual

Ebola has a 90% casualty rate in areas such as West Africa. In America the mortality rate is 50/50

Five people are confirmed to have the Ebola Virus in Pardon County

CDC quarantined the area, erecting road blocks and disallowing anyone in or out of the area

A staff member at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital contacted National Report with a short statement about the Ebola situation in Texas. The individual wished to remain anonymous for their own safety, and told us the following,

“As far as we know, Jack Phillis had not come in contact with neither the late Thomas Duncan or Mrs. Phan. It is perhaps possible that he was within a close proximity of the infected parties, but it is otherwise unknown as to how Phillips was infected with Ebola.

The CDC wasted no time sealing up the rest of the town’s denizens, and has stopped all traffic entering and exiting Purdon, TX. As of 10 Pm, Oct. 13th area has been surrounded with police and CDC officials. Communications with the locals seems to have been cut off, and press is currently awaiting an official statement from local authorities.