A Twitter account associating itself with Fox News is issuing legal threats to anyone who posts tweets that mock the cable news outlet. But the account is not official, a Fox News spokesperson told the Washington Examiner media desk.

"It's a fake account," the spokesperson said.

The account "@FoxNewsPress" surfaced over the weekend in response to a hashtag that made fun of a recent segment on Fox News. The segment involved author Steve Emerson, who writes books on terrorism, claiming that there are certain "no-go" zones for non-Muslims in Europe, including Birmingham, which he wrongly claimed is a "totally muslim" city.

The segment launched #FoxNewsFacts on Twitter, wherein critics of the news channel attributed sometimes humorous, though false, assertions to Fox. "You are not allowed to eat anything during daylight in Ramada Inns," one person tweeted with the hashtag #FoxNewsFacts.

Sign Up for the Politics Today newsletter!
MORE STORIES
CNN begins researching use of drones
BY EDDIE SCARRY | 01/12/15 12:35 PM
Drones are often at the center of controversy for their ability to access private areas by air.
Mark Sanford accused of violating House ethics rules
BY SEAN LENGELL | 01/12/15 12:15 PM
CREW says the South Carolina Republican violated ethics rules by accepting more than $100,000 in stock from...
U.Va. fraternity from Rolling Stone article reinstated
BY KELLY COHEN | 01/12/15 11:25 AM
Phi Kappa Psi restored to full status after a police investigation failed to find "any substantive basis."
Top House Democrat lays out $1.2 trillion progressive tax plan
BY JOSEPH LAWLER | 01/12/15 11:17 AM
A Maryland Democrat wants to tax high earners and stock trades to transfer money to the middle class.
CNN's Tapper 'ashamed' US did not participate in Paris march
BY EDDIE SCARRY | 01/12/15 10:09 AM
CNN's Jake Tapper wrote in an op-ed for CNN.com on Monday, that "as an American: I was ashamed."
WEX TV
John Hoeven touts Keystone XL
John Hoeven touts Keystone XL
Obama takes an economic victory lap
Obama takes an economic victory lap
Obama on community college: 'I want to make it free'
Obama on community college: 'I want to make it free'
Weekly Examiner: Terror in France
Weekly Examiner: Terror in France
The fake @FoxNewsPress account then emerged Sunday to apparently further mock Fox. It began responding to many of the #FoxNewsFacts tweets with legal threats. "This has not come from @FoxNews team," a typical threat would read. "Remove or face legal recourse."

The account was an apparent jab at Fox's reputation among journalists for having a particularly hostile public relations department.

For his part, Emerson did eventually apologize for his statements on Fox. "I have clearly made a terrible error for which I am deeply sorry," he told the Telegraph. My comments about Birmingham were totally in error.