High quality global journalism requires investment. Please share this article with others using the link below, do not cut & paste the article. See our Ts&Cs and Copyright Policy for more detail. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e43cdefa-ae2a-11e4-8188-00144feab7de.html#ixzz3Qzwu98DB

ihadi militants in Syria say that US-led coalition air strikes have killed Kayla Jean Mueller, an American aid worker, who was being held hostage by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (known as Isis).
Social media sites used by the group said Ms Mueller, 26, was killed in coalition air strikes on the Isis stronghold at Raqqa, a city in northern Syria. Pictures posted online, however, offered no conclusive evidence of her death.
Isis supporters posted photographs from the group’s media wing showing a flattened building. “Rubble from the building which the American hostage Kayla Jean Mueller is buried beneath,” said the label of one picture.
More
ON THIS TOPIC
MPs attack ‘modest’ role in Isis fight
Isis video shocks the Arab world
Global Insight Isis risks path to self-destruction
Video shows Jordanian pilot ‘burned alive’ by Isis
IN MIDDLE EASTERN POLITICS & SOCIETY
Killing of pilot hardens Jordan’s resolve
Jordan hangs 2 jihadis after pilot death
Tunisian parties agree coalition cabinet
Egypt deports Al Jazeera reporter
Sign up now

firstFT
FirstFT is our new essential daily email briefing of the best stories from across the web
Officials in Washington said they could not confirm the claim. “We have not at this time seen any evidence that corroborates Isil’s claim,” said Marie Harf, a state department spoksewoman.
Ms Mueller was captured by Isis more than a year ago along with a group of aid workers, all of whom have been released, probably by ransom. Isis was demanding millions of dollars for her release, but the US has a strict policy of rejecting ransom demands.
If Ms Mueller’s death is confirmed, she would be the eighth foreign hostage killed in Isis captivity, and the fourth American.
A statement attributed to Isis and posted online said the house where Ms Mueller was being held was on a site hit by strikes lasting more than an hour on Friday. Its authenticity could not be immediately verified.
“God thwarted their intentions and responded to their cunning. Not a single mujahid [holy warrior] was hit,” the statement said. “We have confirmation that the American prisoner was killed by its fire.”
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a UK-based monitoring group, said that dozens of fighters were killed in the strikes, which focused on suspected Isis bases west of Raqqa.
Activists inside Raqqa said the area was pummeled by air strikes in what was widely perceived by locals as revenge strikes for the execution by Isis of Muath al-Kassaesbeh, a captured Jordanian coalition pilot. He was burned alive in a video that shocked his countrymen and triggered vows of an “earthquake of revenge” by Amman’s forces.
Jordan is one of the Arab countries participating in the US-led coalition against Isis. The coalition has been launching near daily air strikes against Isis territory, which spans about a quarter of both Syria and Iraq.
Isis supporters on Twitter, who posted the images of the destroyed building that allegedly housed Ms Mueller, taunted Jordan for the young captive’s alleged killing. “Bring on your revenge,” said one Isis follower.