The FBI is reportedly investigating a new audiotape that allegedly captures the shooting of Michael Brown, according to CNN.

In the tape, you can hear what sounds like at least 10 shots fired, with a significant pause separating the shooting into two segments. CNN's Don Lemon said the news network hasn't confirmed the tape's authenticity. Michael Brown was shot at least six times according to an autopsy.

Lopa Blumenthal, a Missouri-based attorney for the unidentified man who unknowingly captured the shooting while video-chatting with a friend, claimed on CNN that the tape shows that Ferguson Officer Darren Wilson had a "point of contemplation" before firing the final volley of shots.

The man who recorded the audio "was in his apartment, talking to a friend on a video chat," Blumenthal said. "He heard loud noises, and at the time he didn't even realize the import of what he was hearing until afterwards, and it just happened to have captured 12 seconds of what transpired outside of his building."

"I was very concerned about that pause," she said, "because it's not just the number of gunshots, it's how they're fired. And that has a huge relevance on how this case might finally end up."

It wasn't clear whether Blumenthal had any direct connection to the Brown case.

Retired Chief Deputy U.S. Marshall Matthew Fog, speaking on CNN after hearing the tape, said, "There sounds like a pause in it (the audio). And when you hear that pause it brings some concern."

The tape appears to have drawn the interest of Benjamin Crump, the attorney for Michael Brown's family. He retweeted a tweet Wednesday night from a CNN viewer that said, "Audio recording of shooting just released. Has been played on CNN by Don Lemon at least 5 xs. Very interesting. Proves alot [sic]."

Mashable has reached out to both Blumenthal and Crump for comment and we will update this post if and when we hear back.

(L) Police in Ferguson wearing riot gear walk toward a man with his hands raised on Monday. (R) U.S. soldiers in Mosul, Iraq, search house-by-house for illegal weapons on January 20, 2005.

(L) St. Louis County Tactical Police fire tear gas along West Florissant Road in Ferguson. (R) A grenade explodes close to a U.S. Army humvee during clashes in Mosul, Iraq, on June 13, 2003.

(L) Police take up position to control demonstrators who were protesting the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson on Tuesday. (R) U.S. Army soldiers patrol a village in Kandahar, Afghanistan, on February 27, 2014.

(L) A police officer looks through the scope of his rifle as he gets into position to control demonstrators in Ferguson on Tuesday. (R) A U.S. Marine sniper prepares to fire at insurgents in the town of Kusaiybah on the Syrian-Iraqi border on October 27, 2005.

(L) A Missouri State Highway Patrol tactical vehicle travels down South Florissant Road in Ferguson on Monday. (R) A U.S. Army Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle is parked at the entrance of a U.S. outpost in Khost, Afghanistan, on June 28, 2011.

(L) Police prepare to encounter demonstrators in Ferguson on Tuesday. (R) U.S. soldiers point out to a sniper's position after coming under fire during an offensive operation in Najaf, Iraq, on August 15, 2004.

Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.