She is rarely seen without her trademark Chanel sunglasses, by day or by night.

So when Anna Wintour stepped out minus her shades on Friday afternoon, all eyes were on her.

The powerful Vogue editor-in-chief gave a steely glare as she left the magazine's new headquarters at One World Trade Center, which has reportedly been overrun with an infestation of rats.

Scroll down for video

Not amused: Anna Wintour did not look at all happy as she left her rat-invested new Vogue office without her trademark sunglasses on Friday

What are you looking at? Anna is said to have had enough of the luxurious One World Trade Center

Chic as ever in a three quarter length fur and knee high black boots, the 65-year-old media powerhouse wrapped up from the New York cold.

Peeking out from underneath the coat was a patterned purple and black silk skirt. In her right hand she carried a black purse overflowing with paperwork.

Her sharp chin length, glossy bob has remained unchanged for decades.

Not happy: According to reports, rats have taken over the offices on the 25th and 26th floor

The usual look: Anna, pictured here in October this year at a Broadway show, wearing her famous sunglasses

The formidable magazine supremo looked in no mood to mess with as she left Conde Nast's offices on the 25th and 26th floor of the skyscraper.

According to the New York Daily News, the swish new office building is infested with vermin and staff are understandably horrified.

'A bunch ate through the ceiling of a sports editor's office and crawled all over his desk and left poops on his keyboard,' a source told the paper.

'They ate through his rug to fit under his door.'

Fan of fur: Some may disagree with her choice of coat, but Miss Wintour has always worn fur

Coiffed: The fashion queen's chin length bob has remained unchanged for decades

Last month Wintour sent out an edict saying her office must be clear of the disease-carrying creatures before she stepped into the building.

And after numerous failed extermination attempts, the city's health authority were called in.

Approached by the New York Daily News this week, Vanity Fair's legendary editor in chief Graydon Carter laughed off the problem.

When asked by a reporter from the paper if the infestation was as disgusting as it appeared, he replied: 'They're rats, he laughed. 'What do you think?"

New offices: The legendary magazine group, Conde Nast, moved in last month with publications include Vanity Fair and Vogue

Clean-up: The city's health department was called in to deal with the infestation in the newly-opened building