The North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un has not been seen in public for more than a month, leading to rumors his sister has taken over while the Supreme Leader fights an illness or sits under house arrest.

Where is Kim Jong Un?

The saber-rattling North Korean leader has not been seen in public for more than a month, spurring rumors he is ill and leading to speculation over who — if anyone — has filled the power vacuum in Pyongyang.

But there's one atom bomb of a theory being mentioned by Korea watchers that's quickly gaining currency.

Analysts believe 27-year-old Kim Yo Jong, the seventh and youngest of Kim Jong Il's children with four women, has risen rapidly within the regime and may be secretly running the Hermit Kingdom — for now.

Little Kim reportedly went to the same Swiss boarding school with Kim Jong Un and has held positions within the North Korean government since her father was in power.

"If in fact she is running the country — as someone in their early- to mid-20s — to me that is quite alarming," Center for Strategic and International Studies analyst Victor Cha told CNN. "It means there is something seriously wrong with Kim Jong Un and there is some sort of void that they're desperately trying to fill."

State TV showed Kim Jong Un uncharacteristically walking with a noticeable limp in July at the 20th anniversary memorial commemorating the death of his grandfather, the nation's founder.

After the Supreme Leader's recent vanishing act, health theories have abounded. Kim is ill with everything from gout and a cheese addiction to ankle problems and diabetes. State media called what ails Kim "discomfort" in a Sept. 26 report.

He may even be under house arrest, according to Remco Breuker, professor of Korean studies at Leiden University in the Netherlands.

"We're not sure where he is, or what's happening," Breuker told the ABC News. "We don't know whether he's in the hospital or whether he's been put under house arrest."

Kim Jong Un, whose pal Dennis Rodman said is 31, saw his waistline balloon since he ascended to power in late 2011, analysts note.

Sis Kim Yo Jong is a senior official in the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea. But her role might have expanded dramatically if Kim Jong Un is incapacitated.

"She is one of the only people in (North Korea) that we know has unfettered direct access to KJU. At the present time I would not be surprised if she is sole gatekeeper," North Korea Leadership Watch blog's Michael Madden told NBC News.

Korea watchers point to Friday's anniversary of the founding of the Ruling Workers Party. If Kim Jong Un doesn't show, expect speculation to reach fever pitch.

jmolinet@nydailynews.com Follow on Twitter @jmolinet

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.