On December 17, a site called InSerbia.info published a 400-word piece under the sensational headline:

BiH: Seven Primary School Students Pregnant After Five-Day Excursion


“BiH” presumably refers to — according to the article — the ministry run by Serbia’s National Coordinator for Reproductive Health, Nenad Babici. Babici is the only source the article uses for the story.

The original article has now been linked by the New York Post,  the London Daily Mail, the New York Daily News, Australia’s Courier Mail, Newser, Cosmopolitan UK, and several others. None have performed any follow-up to confirm the original reporting. One newspaper though, added details to the story that were never reported.

But we’re getting ahead of ourselves. Let’s start with the underlying original story.

Even in Bosnia, such a culturally incendiary story should have resulted in local politicians and ne’er-do-wells jumping in front of a camera, and copious b-roll of the school’s front entrance. None of this is present. The only source referenced at all in the story is Babici and his claim that it happened. But notably, he is not quoted as saying it happened — he is paraphrased. The remainder of the article does include a direct quote from him, but the quote doesn’t refer to the incident. It instead pushes what is likely a top agenda of his ministry, which is that teenage sexual activity can have other health consequences, and that curbing teen sex is the responsibility of both the parent and the school:

National Coordinator for Reproductive Health of the Republika Srpska Nenad Babici said that children engage in sexual relations as early as at age of 13 or 14 and added that primary school students from a small town in Bosnia and Herzegovina went to a five-day trip, and after some time it turned out that seven schoolgirls got pregnant on it.

He said that the reason for this was neglect of parents, but also educational institutions, toward the education of children.

Babic said that early engagement in sexual relations later leads to a series of consequences such as infertility, various diseases, miscarriages and premature births.

“In the Republika Srpska between 15 to 18 percent of people are struggling with infertility, we have 15 percent of miscarriages and between 5 to 10 percent premature births,” he said.

Only last year, according to the Clinical Center of the University in Sarajevo, 31 minors gave birth, four of them are 15 years old, ten are 16 years old and 17 are 17 years old.

Look at that last paragraph: if a city the size of Sarajevo only recorded 31 instances of teenage births last year, then Sarajevo doesn’t have a teen pregnancy problem, unless the rate of teen pregnancies that are aborted is stratospheric.

Meanwhile, this story claims the girls were visiting Sarajevo from “a small town in Bosnia and Herzegovina” called Banja Luka. It is not at all clear as to what population that “31 minors” is drawn from.

Beyond the shortcomings of the article itself, how likely is the story’s claim?

Statistics on the percentages of unprotected sexual encounters that result in pregnancy are not wonderful for obvious reasons; this study referenced in this BBC article puts the figure at about 5 percent, except for the short window prior to ovulation, during which the study estimates the odds at 25 percent. So either the seven children were ovulating at the same time and had about four encounters each, or they each had closer to 20 encounters over the five days.

Or all 28 students were active and about to ovulate. Either/or.

Every scenario presented by this article seems absurdly improbable, from the incident itself to the manner of the coverage. To a link-seeking media searching for a scoop, this is where we are expected to either get to work debunking the article, or to stay clear. So how did our brethren respond?

At the start of the post, I mentioned that the original article has been linked with confirmation of the original reporting by such mainstream newspapers, magazines and Websites as the New York Post, the London Daily Mail, the New York Daily News, the Australian Courier Mail, Newser, Cosmopolitan UK. And — perhaps representing the worst offense of the bunch — the Daily Mail added details to the story that were never reported.