An Iraqi airstrike on Thursday (September 4th) killed Abu Hajar al-Souri, a top aide to "Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant" (ISIL) leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the Iraqi Ministry of Defence said.
"The Iraqi army air hawks were able to make a direct hit on one of ISIL's main strongholds in Tal al-Rumman, west of Mosul, killing Abu Hajar al-Souri, the right arm of ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and those with him," the ministry said in a statement released by Al-Iraqiya state television.

The airstrike killed "seven prominent leaders in the group, most of them Arab and foreign fighters", ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Mohammed al-Askari told Mawtani.

"Abu Hajar is considered a key leader in the group and the second-in-command for planning and executing terrorist operations," the spokesman said. "He used to move between Iraq and Syria on an on-going basis to follow up on the group's members."

The army plans to release additional details about the operation after carrying out the necessary investigations, he added.

CITIZENS' CO-OPERATION KEY
Deputy Air Force Commander Lt. Gen. Hamed Attia said the air raid "took place after days of surveillance, information-gathering and communications intercepted by locals about the presence of al-Souri in the region".

Attia said the attack was the fruit of security co-operation with citizens.

Iraqi MP Hassan al-Sunaid described the air raid as a positive step.

"The death of Abu Hajar al-Souri will be welcome news for the thousands of families of terrorism victims, and hundreds of thousands of Iraqis displaced because of ISIL," he said.

Co-operation between civilians and the security forces is continuously increasing, al-Sunaid said.

Iraqis in Mosul and its suburbs also are welcoming the news, said Ibrahim al-Hassan, deputy chairman of the Ninawa tribal council.

"This criminal did not stop at what he did in his own country and came to our country to continue his crimes," al-Hassan said.

"He received what he deserves and others should expect a similar fate," he added.