Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson is pushing back against a claim made by Rep. Duncan Hunter that at least 10 Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant fighters were apprehended trying to come into the U.S. from Mexico.

“We have no credible, specific intelligence to that effect,” Johnson said of ISIL insurgents illegally entering the country from along the southern border on CNN Wednesday evening. “And I look at the intelligence reports from overseas from our southern border from our intelligence community virtually every day, numerous times a day, to be on the lookout for something of that nature. So, what I’d say to the American public is we’re vigilant in looking out for individuals of suspicion who may be crossing our border.”

The top DHS official didn’t mention Hunter, a California Republican congressman, by name. But on several occasions, Johnson said that public officials have a “responsibility” to not “unnecessarily frighten the American public.”

“Let’s not unduly create fear and anxiety in the American public by passing on speculation and rumor,” the secretary told host Wolf Blitzer.

Blitzer asked specifically about comments made Tuesday evening by Hunter, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “[A]t least 10 ISIS fighters have been caught coming across the Mexican border in Texas,” the congressman said during an interview on Fox News, citing information from source from Customs and Border Protection, which is under DHS authority. Hunter also suggested that it was likely that “dozens” of others linked to the terrorist group that has recently beheaded two American journalists and two British aid workers would likely not get caught by border agents and make their way into the U.S.

On Wednesday, DHS flatly said that Hunter’s claim was unfounded. “The suggestion that individuals who have ties to ISIL have been apprehended at the southwest border is categorically false, and not supported by any credible intelligence or the facts on the ground,” a DHS spokesperson said.

Judicial Watch reported later Wednesday that four “Islamic terrorists” had been seized along the southern border in 36 hours.

Hunter’s deputy chief of staff, Joe Kasper, told POLITICO that the congressman stands by his statement, which came from a conversation with a “high-level” source, but didn’t elaborate when asked about the individuals’ specific ties to ISIL.

In September, Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz of Utah claimed that four men linked to terrorist organizations tried to cross the border earlier that month.