Mayor de Blasio and NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton were expected to announce the change Monday, but reaction to the new policy has been mixed ahead of the press conference.

The NYPD’s old strategy for combating pot possession is going up in smoke.

In a historic change, city cops will stop arresting people on low-level marijuana charges and issue tickets instead, various police and other sources said Monday.

Persons caught smoking on the street would still wind up in the pokey, they said. But someone caught with a small amount of reefer would be slapped with a summons.

The new policy is expected to be formally announced later Monday by Mayor de Blasio and NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton at an afternoon press conference, but already law enforcement and reformers were weighing in — both for and against the new rule.

“This should free up police manpower to pursue cases of greater magnitude while relieving some of the congestion in the courts,” Richmond County District Attorney Daniel Donovan said in support.

The Drug Policy Alliance said it was “cautiously optimistic” about the new NYPD policy.

“Most of those arrested are young men of color, even though young white men use marijuana at higher rates,” the group said in a statement.

Richard Aborn of the Citizens Crime Commission said the new rule will have the long-lasting effect of making it easier for more young people to find legitimate employment.

“There’s no criminal record,” he said. “You don’t have the stigma of a criminal record.”

“I think it’s sad,” countered Sergeants Benevolent Association President Ed Mullins. “I think this is the beginning of an avalanche. Basically, what he's doing is equating an illegal substance to a parking ticket.”

Pat Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said they want clarity from the top for their membership.

“Anything less will result in our members being held responsible for a failed policy by a discipline obsessed police department and the multiple levels of police oversight it has,” Lynch said in a statement. “We do not want police officers left holding the bag if crime rises because of poor policy.”

Sam Pirozzolo, vice-president of the NYC Parents Union, said the new NYPD rule “sends a very mixed message to our children.”

“It’s saying that it's OK to smoke marijuana because it's now less of a crime, but overall we know drugs are harmful," said Pirozzolo, whose daughter is a ninth-grader at Susan Wagner High School in Staten Island.

As it is, misdemeanor marijuana arrests are down citywide in the first 10 months of the year — about 24,000 compared to 29,000 last year.

There has been a growing pressure on law enforcement to curb arrests for small amounts of pot because they are disproportionately made in black and Hispanic communities.

According to the Marijuana Arrest Research Project, blacks and Hispanics represented 86% of those arrested for marijuana possession in the city in the first eight months of the year.

The new NYPD policy was embraced by Brooklyn District Attorney Kenneth Thompson during his 2013 campaign for office. He promised to fine those arrested with small amounts of marijuana rather than put them in cuffs and charge them.

"Too many young people are being arrested for low-level drug charges that leave a permanent stain on their records for what should be a violation," Thompson has said.

The de Blasio administration has been slow to embrace that strategy, but Bratton has spoken recently about handling some minor criminal offenses without making arrests.

Bratton and the NYPD’s policy of aggressively targeting low-level crime has come under criticism in the wake of Eric Garner’s death from a police chokehold after he was arrested for selling untaxed cigarettes.

Critics say it’s main flaw is that it pits the police against minorities, who wind up being the chief targets of the strategy.

With Oren Yaniv and Ben Chapman

tmoore@nydailynews.com