Ryan Roche, 32, of Levi, was coaxed into participating in the competition at his office's holiday party. Though he shattered the contest record, an infection started in his lungs and he spent three days in the hospital.

His competitive Christmas spirit nearly killed him.

After being pressured into an eggnog-chugging contest at an office party, a Utah man nearly died from an infection that started in his lungs.

A YouTube video shows triumphant Ryan Roche down a carton of eggnog in a record 12 seconds, shattering the previous record of 22 seconds. For his victory, he received a gift card to a local steak house - and a trip to the hospital.

Roche told the Daily News he was actually about to leave the Dec. 10 holiday soiree with his family when the organizers broke out the eggnog.

A colleague called him out, and the competitive Roche refused to walk away.

Without even sparing time to taste it, the sales manager finished the quart of eggnog in record time -- but Roche said he immediately knew there was a problem.

The Lehi resident had done other chugging competitions in the past without incident, but as soon as this one ended, he couldn't breathe. In the video, he's seen bending over after finishing the drink.

Afterward, he coughed a lot and had trouble breathing as the thick holiday drink blocked his airways.

A few hours later he decided to go to the hospital.

"Initially I felt very nauseous and pretty sick," he said. "After I was put on antibiotics and an IV I was no longer nauseous."

But Roche spent three full days in the hospital. Because he'd breathed in the eggnog, the liquid caused an infection in his lungs.

"The next few days my body would change from having a fever to shivering nonstop," he said. "It was like every hour on the hour it would change."

About a week after being discharged from the hospital, Roche said he was back to full strength and feeling good.

His unusual illness also made him a celebrity inside the hospital.

"I can't tell you how many doctors or nurses would walk into my room and say, 'Eggnog, huh?' Then they'd say, 'Well, at least you won,'" he said.

And the experience has not completely soured him on eggnog.

"I was never a big fan of it to begin with," he said. "I could drink it again, but it's not my drink of choice."

And though he is proud of his record, Roche said he will not be defending his title at future parties.

"No chance," he said. "Even if someone challenged me to do it, my wife wouldn't allow it."

USING A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO SEE THE VIDEO.

jlandau@nydailynews.com