Men claiming to be part of terrorist group ISIL posted a video allegedly showing the beheading of freelance photojournalist James Wright Foley, who disappeared in northwest Syria on November 22, 2012. The White House said they have not yet confirmed the authenticity of the video. 

The video starts with a clip of President Barack Obama earlier this month making the announcement that he had authorized targeted strikes in Iraq to protect American interests in Irbil. It then cuts to a title scene that says "Message to America" before cutting to a desert scene, with Foley in orange clothes on his knees, and a man in all black standing next to him. 

In the video Foley delivers a statement calling on his friends and family to "rise up against my real killers, the U.S. government."

Then the ISIS member makes a statement. Speaking in what may possibly be a British accent, he identifies Foley and says his death is a direct result of American intervention in Iraq. 

"So any attempt by you Obama, to deny the Muslims of living in safety under Islamic caliphate will result in the bloodshed of your people."

He then beheads Foley.

Freelance journalist Steven Joel Sotloff is then shown also in an orange jumpsuit on his knees. The man in black then says "The life of this American citizen Obama, depends on your next decision."

About 20 minutes after posting the video was removed from YouTube.

According to BuzzFeed, two people who know Foley confirmed that the man in the video looks and sounds like him.

In a statement, National Security Council spokesperson Caitlin Hayden said that if the video is genuine they are "appalled by the brutal murder." 

"We have seen a video that purports to be the murder of U.S. citizen James Foley by ISIL. The intelligence community is working as quickly as possible to determine its authenticity. If genuine, we are appalled by the brutal murder of an innocent American journalist and we express our deepest condolences to his family and friends. We will provide more information when it is available.”

Foley, 40, grew up in New Hampshire and was originally a teacher, at one point teaching prison inmates in Arizona, before attending the Medill school of journalism at Northwestern University. After graduation, his first assignment was as an embed with the U.S. Army’s 173rd Brigade and 101st Airborne Division in Afghanistan.  Foley had been covering the Syria's civil war for GlobalPost and Agence France-Presse (AFP) when he was allegedly pulled from the car he was traveling in to meet with a colleague and abducted at gunpoint. According to the Columbia Journalism Review, GlobalPost hired an international security firm for a ground level investigation in Northern Syria and along the Turkish border to locate him.

Foley was also detained and held for 44 days in Libya in 2011. 

This post has been update to include the NSC statement.