Celebrity Dog Cesar Millan should have died, according to a post on the site noticiasunam.com. But there are many obvious oddities in the post - Viral Inspector shows why it probably is fake.

TV Personality and hunduppfostraren Cesar Millan has died of a heart attack, reports the site noticiasunam.com . The news has been widely adopted - just over 17,000 interactions on Facebook accordance sharedcount.com - and shocked many. "Oh, becomes so sad. Rest in paradise Cesar Millan! "Writes one of many Swedes who have turned to Facebook to express their condolences.

But they probably unnecessarily. It is unclear what exactly noticiasumam.com is a kind side, but a reputable news source, it is at least not.

To begin with, there are many warning signs about the article itself if Millan's death. It is the Hispanic-side single article in English, and has under its byline written by Frank William Abagnale, a famous forger of checks whose lives laid the basis for the movie "Catch Me If You Can". And whatever Abagnale do nowadays so it's probably not writing for noticiasumam.com.

Additionally, it stated the source of the claim to be a press conference with Millan's wife, Jahira Dar. Searches shows that this press conference is not mentioned anywhere else than right on noticiasumam.com, which almost certainly means that the conference never even took place. To make doubly sure is Jahira Dar and Cesar Millan not actually married, at least according to a mingling article in the Daily Mail from November 23. 

According to the article, Millan have been put in the hospital "yesterday afternoon", ie on Tuesday. But the night of Wednesday, Swedish time appeared still up happy tweets and status updates on Millans Twitter - and Facebook feeds  - the last came as late as an hour before the site's article was published. Cesar Millan has a television program on the National Geographic, nor where there any information about his death.

If there are rumors about a celebrity death so you should always wait until they are confirmed by a close relative or associate of the person, in an interview with a credible source. In the case of Millan, there is no such confirmed data, and both Indian International Business Times  as Dutch De Telegraaf  warns that page that published the news is not credible.

Viral reviewer can therefore conclude that the source of the allegation of Cesar Millan's death is not credible. Although Millan's team have not directly denied the information we dare say he most certainly not dead. We have searched his team for comment.