When most parents think of a school trip, they envision some form of educational lesson taking place outside of school. However, the parents of seven different girls are reportedly outraged over the outcome of a recent school trip because all of their daughters came home pregnant! According to The Daily Mail, 28 girls attending a Bosnian school were taken on a five-day school trip from the town of Banja Luka to Bosnia’s capital city, Saravejo. Out of the 28 girls, seven reportedly came home pregnant.

The students were suppose to be touring museums, but apparently, much more went on. Shortly after the trip, the seven girls, who range from ages 13 to 15, all turned up pregnant at the same time and that’s when it was discovered that they all conceived on the trip.

Needless to say, the parents are outraged. As a matter of fact, many of the parents are blaming school administrators and chaperones for lack of supervision on the five-day excursion. However, a Bosnian gynecologist feels otherwise. argues that parents and school officials are equally responsible due to the lack of sexual education children in the receive. According to inserbia.info, Nenad Babici, National Coordinator for the Reproductive Health of the Republika Srpska.

“That is the trend of today. But we cannot continue to allow our children to be educated about sex on the street and not in school. It is obvious that children do not have enough of health education so they engage in such activities, not knowing the consequences. We have to be more direct in the educational system, it must not be allowed that street teaches children about intimate matters, and that they are later slapped by life.”

The shocking report has captured the attention of thousands around the world. The issue has also sparked controversy as many Internet surfers have expressed different views about who should be held accountable for the girls’ actions.

Do you think the school should be blamed for lack of supervision over the students? Share your thoughts.

[Image via Everyday Feminism]