A soldier was reportedly shot at Canada's National War Memorial while a second person, believed to be a fatally wounded gunman, was given medical attention beside the Library of Parliament. Video captured dozens of shots fired as one shooter was killed by police, who continued to hunt for one or two other gunmen.

A soldier was shot at the National War Memorial in Ottawa by a gunman who ran to the the city’s Parliament building, where he was killed by law enforcement.

The area is on lockdown as police search for possibly two other gunmen following the Wednesday morning shooting.

A witness reported seeing a man running with a double-barrelled shotgun after the shooting, which brought a heavy police presence to the country's capital buildings where dozens of shots were exchanged between the suspect and armed law enforcement members.

A wounded person was photographed outside the Library of Parliament, in the middle of Centre Block, while the soldier was attended to beside the outdoor memorial before leaving in an ambulance. Police confirmed shots were fired at the memorial at 9:52 a.m. Wednesday.

The suspect is described as standing 5-foot-10-inches, overweight with a dark jacket and white scarf over his face. A witness described the suspect's car as a purple Toyota Corolla with no license plates. Two men reportedly got out of the vehicle, a witness told the National Post.

There was a major exchange of gunfire outside Parliament, according to reports.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper is safe and has left Parliament Hill, his office confirmed.

At the war memorial in. Ottawa. A soldier has been shot. They are giving him treatment now. #breaking pic.twitter.com/cTmlb1LvgG

Journalists have been forced to the ground at gunpoint after the shooting on Wellington Street, where some dozen shots were reported fired, The Globe and Mail reported.

Authorities fear the gunman may have headed towards the Chateau Laurier, a massive hotel just north of the Parliament building across the Rideau Canal. Police closed all city police stations to the public after the shooting, possibly in fear that the shooter may target law enforcement officials. And police ordered people in the downtown section of the city to "stay away from windows and off roofs due to ongoing police incident," the department tweeted.

All three Canadian political parties were holding weekly caucus meetings at the time of the shooting, which sent people inside Parliament fleeing the building by climbing down scaffolding meant for construction, witnesses said.

Reporters saying this is a suspect's car. Older model Toyota Corolla parked in front of Hill still running. #ottnews pic.twitter.com/LH0pGhGaeB

The soldier, described as in his 30s, was shot in the abdomen and is in unknown condition after being taken to the hospital, the Ottawa Citizen reported.

The incident comes two days after a radicalized Quebec terrorist killed one Canadian soldier and injured a second with his car during a rampage in Montreal on Monday.

The extremist, a recent convert to Islam, at one point called 911 and told the operator that he was acting in the name of Allah.

THIS IS BREAKING NEWS. CHECK BACK FOR UPDATES.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE FOR VIDEO

sgoldstein@nydailynews.com