update

This story was a hoax written by a site which appeared to be the English-language website of the Chinese state-run broadcaster, CCTV. And we fell for it.

The original blog post, which was cited by us and other publishers, was published at cctvnews.cn. The fake site used CCTV’s logo and embedded tweets from the official @CCTVNEWS Twitter account.

The actual URL of CCTV English is english.cntv.cn.

However, an internet directory search shows that the fake CCTVNews site – which is now offline – is based in Hangzhou, 1,300 miles from CCTV’s real headquarters in Beijing.    BF_STATIC.timequeue.push(function () { document.getElementById("update_article_update_time_4429703").innerHTML = UI.dateFormat.get_formatted_date('2014-12-08 04:28:40 -0500', 'update'); });

This week CCTV News, the state-run broadcaster, came up with these tips for any Chinese people considering an English name – one of which is to steer clear of “Dumbledore”.

It’s common for Chinese people to choose an English name, partly to make conversation with non-Chinese speakers easier. Many Chinese students in western colleges go by an English name, for example.

But as CCTV points out, some people are choosing names that might sound odd to English speakers.

The article says: “While native English speakers are stuck with whatever happy or unhappy names they’ve been given, Chinese and other ‘non-natives’ get the lucky choice of picking their own English name.

“However these choices can mean more than you think!”

Religious, mythical, and fictional characters such as Vampire, Satan, Medusa, and Edward Cullen are a no-no.

“Unique names like these aren’t just very amusing to English speakers, it also suggests you have some connection to that name,” the article warns.

“So if you call yourself Satan, you might get a few foreigners thinking you’re anti-Christian, or possibly a member of a heavy metal band.”

CCTV says Harry is OK, if you’re a Harry Potter fan, but only because it was a common name to start with.

Also on the “no” list are common everyday words that aren’t used as names in English, such as Lawyer.

Other examples include Surprise, Dragon, and Fish – things that might be related to the characters in someone’s Chinese name.

“Sure, have fun and pick a random object or word as a name, but avoid them if you want a call back from that serious law firm in America.” CCTV says.

CCTV closes the article with this advice for anyone thinking of an English name:

A good way to work out the ‘feeling’ of a name is to watch a bunch of American movies and sitcoms. They’re full of name stereotypes – you’ll find the good girls’ are all ‘Janes’, the jock boys are still ‘Buds’ and the geeks are called ‘Sheldon’.