One of the best things about the Internet is the speed at which it allows information to be shared. Unfortunately, this means all information -- even false ones like the news about the six-day darkness that would envelop the world in December.

The report "NASA Confirms Earth Will Experience 6 Days of Total Darkness in December 2014" was published by Huzlers.com. Considering the site labeled itself as offering "a combination of real shocking news and satirical entertainment to keep its visitors in a state of disbelief," the story should have been taken with a grain of salt at the very least.

According to the story, NASA "confirmed" that the Earth would be experiencing six days of nearly complete darkness from Dec. 16 to 22. The event would supposedly happen because of a solar storm that would spur enough dust and debris in space that 90 percent of sunlight would be blocked out.

NASA head Charles Bolden was said to have made the announcement, asking people to remain calm given a solar storm so bad (the biggest in 250 years!) was going to happen that it would block out the sun for 216 hours.

Reporters also apparently "interviewed" people to hear what they had to say about the event, with Michael Hearns responding with a "We gonna be purgin my n*gga, six days of darkness means six days of turnin up fam."

How people took that response seriously is a mystery.

Six days of darkness, if it were to really happen, sounds like a big deal but the story downplays it in the end, noting that officials said that major problems would not arise anyway. A certain Earl Godoy, a NASA scientist, reiterated there would be no problem because the planet could survive on "artificial light" during the event.

NASA has not made any official statements regarding this six-day period of darkness descending on Earth.

The good news is that this means the world will not be falling into darkness for six days in December. The bad news is that people aren't very good at separating what's real from what's not, liking and sharing the story thousands of times since it first came out on Oct. 25.

Huzlers.com was also responsible for reports in the past where Tupac Shakur claimed he was alive, Ebola victims rose from the dead, and Floyd Mayweather offered a $1 million annual salary to have someone read everything for him.