NBC's lead anchor defended the meteorologist and explained that he had lost contact with the control room and was trying to call them with his cellphone. Seidel was unknowingly placed on live television Saturday night while his back was turned to the camera, fueling the incorrect rumors.

After hundreds of mentions on social media the past two days, NBC News anchor Brian Williams slammed those who speculated they caught meteorologist Mike Seidel relieving himself live on air and said they owe him an apology.

The anchor for the network's “Nightly News” program chose to squash the Internet rumors on Monday's broadcast that Seidel was caught "writing his name on the snow" when reporting from a major snowstorm in North Carolina Saturday.

"Social media owes our friend Mike Seidel an apology,” Williams declared.

On Saturday’s broadcast, anchor Lester Holt said they were going to the station's No. 1 meteorologist for a report.

Seidel appeared to be, well, a wee bit busy, as his back was turned to the camera and he was slightly hunched forward. A few seconds after he was introduced he could be heard asking "Why?" and then turned around and put on his gloves.

The strange television blooper from Sugar Mountain, N.C., fueled speculation that he was relieving himself behind some trees.

The segment also led to some teasing for the weather professional.

I think mike seidel was writing lester holt in the snow... how embarrassing got to love east coast live tv pic.twitter.com/KmKn27Fgc2

"Oh, to pee on Sugar Mountain With the barometers and the weather balloons @MikeSeidel peed on Sugar Mountain But @NBCNews cut away too soon," tweeted the fake Brian Williams account.

The social media analytics site Topsy reports Seidel had more than 250 mentions since Saturday's broadcast.

But the speculation was incorrect and Williams wanted to make sure his audience of about 8 million nightly viewers knew the real story.

"The intrepid and fearless Weather Channel meteorologist was the victim of some wild misinformation," he said on the telecast.

He then explained Seidel had lost cellphone contact with the control room and couldn't hear through his attached earpiece, he didn't know he was on the air and took off his gloves so he could call them with his phone that was tethered to his ear. His phone had lost its signal, a network spokesman told the Daily News.

"That's when the rumors hit the Web that he was perhaps writing his name in the snow," Williams said. "It was just Mike working to make it right, which is why we all love working with Mike Seidel."

A BIG thanks to Brian Williams for having my back! M/T "He cleared up internet rumor about what I was REALLY doing http://t.co/MoogDLa3z1"

Seidel tweeted the video of Williams' statement Monday night with a thank you to his anchor.

"A BIG thanks to Brian Williams for having my back! M/T "He cleared up internet rumor about what I was REALLY doing," he tweeted.

Of course, it was seeing Seidel’s back that started this whole thing.

With News Wire Services

jlandau@nydailynews.com Follow on Twitter @joelzlandau

USING A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO SEE THE VIDEO.