Anna Wintour reportedly has a major rat infestation at her Vogue office in New York City.

According to Radar Online, some of the dirtiest rats have decided to move into Anna’s new office for herself and Vogue staffers at the Freedom Tower.

Insiders claim that rodents invaded the beloved accessories closet, leaving an abundance of rat droppings all over their pricey couture, computers, and desks. Further reports claim that the decision to put Kanye West and Kim Kardashian on the cover of Vogue magazine may have something to do with the infestation.

“The office is over-run and the Vogue staff is secretly whispering that the rats could be cosmic payback for Anna’s decision to put Kim Kardashian and Kanye West on the cover. There was so much backlash, and now this!”

As previously reported by the Inquisitr, critics were not very happy with Anna Wintour and the Vogue staff making the “disgusting” decision to place the reality starlet and her husband on the cover. The couple was photographed for the April 2014 cover by Anne Leibovitz.

Vogue and Condé Nast relocated from Times Square to One World Trade Center. However, the rat infestation has not made the Vogue relocation as smooth as they would have liked – especially since reports claim that the rats are only located on the Vogue floors of the building.

“There were droppings all over the floor, and some of the shoe boxes had been chewed into… The rats appear to have gotten in via the venting, which was being worked on even as staffers were moving in. Walls were being moved to accommodate last-minute design changes…and it’s assumed this is how the rats got in.”

Even though Anna Wintour usually allows employees to eat and drink inside of the office, reports claim that a strict policy restricting food and drinks has been issued and enforced until the infestation problem is resolved.

Gawker, the media outlet that initially broke the story, reports that Anna Wintour refuses to even enter her office until it is in pristine condition and completely freed of its rat infestation.

Anna Wintour has made headlines recently by expressing how she felt about the Kim Kardashian and Kanye West cover shoot experience. Huffington Post reports that Wintour even hopes that “another Kim Kardashian comes along this year.”

In her own words, Anna Wintour did not feel that the cover photo was “disgusting” at all. On the contrary, she believes that it was touching and charming.