A homeless man who became a YouTube sensation after he spent a $100 donation on food for his beggar friends has received a surprise meal, makeover and hotel stay in a new video released amid claims it is a hoax.

The short film posted by 'serial prankster' Josh Paler Lin shows Thomas, a man living on the streets of California, being taken to a sushi restaurant before staying in a hotel room complete with a hot tub on Christmas Eve.

After a night's sleep the filmmaker then takes him to a hairdressers for a haircut and then to a mall where he buys a new suit.

The videos, that have gained more than 26million views, are part of a campaign to raise more than $120,000, via an Indiegogo page for Thomas to get his life back on track.

But now, viewers have questioned its authenticity, citing a number of apparent flaws in the footage, as well as the hefty profit Paler Lin has reportedly made from its success - up to a huge $52,000.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS

Smartened up: In Josh Paler Lin's newsest video, homeless Thomas, who became an internet hit after spending a $100 donation on food for his friends, is given a new suit and a makeover

Comfort: After living on the streets of Los Angeles, he is also seen spreading out on the white sheets of the bed in his luxury hotel room

Luxurious: He is also shocked to find that the accommodation comes with an enormous hot tub

While sitting in his luxury hotel room in the new clip, Paler Lin asks Thomas what he would do with $100,000.

In line with the gesture to his homeless friends in his first videos, he says: 'When I come into some money I am going to go to three shelters that helped me out and I am going to buy a bunch of bus tickets for people.

'This is what these people need. They've got places to go medically or where they can get help from an agency.

YouTube users have been skeptical about Paler Lin's motivation, suggesting it is a 'set-up' so he can gain traffic and profit.

One YouTube user, with the handle ClemtheRanter, said: 'A large number of YouTube prank videos are staged,' he said. 'I was involved in a bloody eyeball scare prank by Josh Paler Lin. My part of the video was staged... me getting scared by Josh.

Before his haircut he said he was upset at how grey he had become and how long his hair had grown

A store attendant stands alongside Thomas in the mirror as he admires one of the number of suits he tried on during a visit to a mall

Wit his new look and wardrobe, Thomas was treated to a buffet meal at the end of the day by Paler Lin

Gesture... with an agenda? Skeptics have picked holes in a viral video showing a homeless man spending a $100 donation on food for his beggar friends, deeming it a 'fake' creation that was focused on making money

Twist: The short film sees 'serial prankster' Josh Paler Lin give $100 to a beggar named Thomas in Los Angeles, California - only for him to walk into a Liquor Mart (left) and buy food for his struggling friends (right)

Skepticism: Now, viewers have questioned the video's authenticity, citing a number of 'flaws' in the footage. Above, Lin is pictured in a Facebook photo. He is well-known for producing 'prank' videos for YouTube

Profitable: Some have highlighted the hefty profit Paler Lin has reportedly made from the film's success - up to an enormous $52,000 (above, in red), according to socialblade.com , which tracks YouTube channel statistics

'I asked him if he could give me a shout-out and put my name in the description below so I can get some traffic to my YouTube channel, but it never happened.

'So now i'm addressing this issue due to a number of YouTube pranksters getting exposed for making stage pranks.'

Other users have claimed that homeless feel-good films are a sure-fire way of boosting traffic - and consequently, money, via advertisements - on the social networking site.

'They go to a homeless person and make a feel-good video because they know that's going to get views,' said one YouTube user, referring to the site's personalities, such as Paler Lin.

Fine dining: Thomas is pictured tucking into a Christmas meal in another photo posted on Lin's Instagram

In good spirits: Alongside the picture, YouTube personality Lin wrote: 'I think Thomas had a good X'mas meal'

Using chopsticks: Lin captioned this photo of Thomas: 'Taking Thomas to eat Shabu Shabu in this Xmas eve'

A strange choice: One YouTube user questioned Thomas's choice of a Liquor Mart a 34-minute walk away (pictured) for his food shop - as opposed to a nearer supermarket - saying: 'It seems like an odd coincidence'

Indeed, in November 2013, Paler Lin gave another homeless man $100 and told an actor playing a beggar to approach him to ask for money for food. Again, the real beggar handed over some cash.

The user, with the handle '24/7 rants', claimed the start of Paler Lin's recent homeless video - which sees the director hand Thomas $100, before secretly following him with a camera - immediately suggests it may be a hoax.

Why did Thomas buy food from a liquor store, not a cheaper grocery store?

Why did he stop at a shop a 34-minute walk from the park instead of the shop closest to the park?

If Josh Paler Lin’s business is to make viral-hit videos, why did he set out to ‘expose’ a homeless person spending $100 on booze?

Speaking in his own video, he said Paler Lin could not possibly have guaranteed the man was going to pick up his things and spend the money immediately, instead of remaining by the roadside.

'How did he know he was going to spend the money immediately? He had no idea,' he said.

He also picked holes in the claim that Thomas did not notice the camera - nor Paler Lin (who has a distinctive haircut) - following him throughout the duration of his trip to a nearby Liquor Mart.

After shopping at the Mart, Thomas was filmed emerging with bags filled with food, before going straight to a park, where he handed out the goods to a number of homeless people.

However, the user questioned the beggar's choice of a Liquor Mart a 34-minute walk away for his food shop - instead of a nearer, cheaper supermarket - saying: 'It seems like an odd coincidence'.

Criticism: One Twitter user, with the handle Cornelius, said the video would shortly be 'exposed as fake'

Joking: One British user joked that he was heading off 'to create a fake homeless friend' and then appeal to locals for donations - following in the wake of Lin's successful fundraising on Indiegogo for Thomas

Casting doubt: Another YouTube user (pictured), with the handle, ClemtheRanter , said Lin is a well-known prankster whom previously worked on a Halloween-themed video with him that was 'set up' to gain traffic

History of fakes? 'A large number of YouTube prank videos are staged,' he said. 'I was involved in a Halloween-themed bloody eyeball scare prank by Josh Paler Lin'. Above, footage of the apparently 'fake' eyeball prank

'Why would this guy, of all places, go to a liquor store to buy chips and pie or whatever when you think that there are tons of other places to go to... that are convenient, probably cheaper.

'That would go with the staging thing because it's like, "oh look at that, it's a happy twist ending", and that would make people share it.'

However, Paler Lin argued that Thomas chose the liqour store because it was closest to his begging spot, saying: 'When people see you getting all this traffic they want to bring you down.'

When questioned by DailyMail.com, he did not explain why Thomas chose to drag several bags of food 34 minutes to the park, instead of shopping at least two stores that were closer to the park.

But he strongly denied staging any of his films or having met Thomas before the $100 exchange.

You're welcome: In Lin's homeless video, Thomas apparently begrudgingly accepts the $100 cash from him

Next: The beggar then walks into a Liquor Mart, where he purchases food for his beggar friends, not alcohol

Giving: The camera following Thomas as he hands food to a family in the park he was initially filmed in

‘I had little expectation, maybe he would buy alcohol maybe he wouldn’t,' he said of the video. 'I wanted to see what a homeless person would spend it on. No one has ever done that before.'

However, the YouTube user claimed the number of hits received by Paler Lin's previous YouTube videos - between 600,000 to 800,000, according to socialblade.com, a site that tracks YouTube channel statistics - could have prompted him to construct what he knew would be a viral hit.

Indeed, Paler Lin - who earns money based on how many users view his videos, most of which are 'pranks' - not only scooped $52,000 from the film, but also gained 13,000 new subscribers.

'[Lin] knows what makes people share videos. He knows all the tactics, probably,' added the user.

Other social media users have pointed out that the video apparently cuts several times as Paler Lin speaks to him by the side of a busy road, meaning he would be able to edit out bad acting.

Candid camera: Lin eventually approaches Thomas to reveal he has been followed. Thomas appears shocked

Grateful: Lin says he was shocked at how the experiment turned out - and has defended its authenticity

And some have said that Thomas's reaction to the camera - 'oh yeah' - was not very realistic.

After the video went viral, Paler Lin said on YouTube: 'I wasn’t expecting to get this kind of footage. To be honest, I thought this video would be more an exposing homeless people video at first.'

He added: 'I’m so glad that I could witness and capture such a beautiful moment. This has to be one of the most amazing experience so far on this channel.

'I did not only just help a homeless man, but I actually met an incredible human being and a friend. We were following him for a couple miles for almost an hour or so.'

In the footage, Thomas told Paler Lin he had quit his job to look after his parents, but after both of them died, he couldn't afford to pay for their condo and found himself on the street.

Another video: In November 2013, Lin (pictured, left) gave another homeless man (right) $100 and told an actor playing a beggar to approach him to ask for money for food. The video gained far fewer views than Thomas's

A kind gesture: Again, the beggar handed over some cash (left), prompting the actor to hug him (right)

So taken aback by what happen, Paler Lin said he later took the man the man out for dinner and put him up in a hotel for the night. He also gave him an extra $100 cash.

'The more I talk to him, the more I sense how genuine he is…. I gave him my number and told him to call me when he needs help. Never judge a book by its cover. One love!' he said.

Since uploading the video, Paler Lin has posted a number of photos of Thomas to Instagram, including the beggar dressed in a suit and eating a couple of Christmas meals.

He captioned one of the images: 'I think Thomas had a good X'mas meal!'