Partner goes global as bare-bummed mobile snaps of cheating pair without their clothes are shared across the planet

This is the moment the naked truth about a husband's cheating ways were exposed to the watching world.

Ting Su, 29, caught bed-hopping partner Cheng, 30, romping naked in an underground carpark along with her TWIN SISTER after using a mobile phone tracker to locate their whereabouts.

And when the wailing wife confronted the treacherous twosome about their red-hot rear-seat rendezvous, the stunned pair reacted by jumping out of the vehicle.

CEN   Bum deal: Ting's twin sister is left naked and embarrassed

Quick-thinking Ting seized her chance for instant karma and drove off – leaving the secret rompers bare-bummed and red-faced on the tarmac at a local shopping centre in the city of Suzhou, eastern China.

One witness said: "It was so funny. Loads of people were grabbing their phones and I did as well. He was banging his fist on the window and shouting at her, and she just wasn't playing ball."

Naij.com reported that It was later discovered that Cheng had been having an affair since Ting, who has now filed for divorce, gave birth to twins.

Video loading            Watch next        Watch this video again  Watch Next

A woman who found out her boyfriend was cheating on her became an internet sensation when she scrawled abuse over his prized motor and posted photos of it online last month.

Stunned Maria Alejandra Samaniego, 25, went ballistic when she found cheating Pabil Muniz Quintanilla, 27, in bed with another woman at his home in Barranquilla, Colombia.

After storming out, she returned several hours later with a friend and convinced the security guard to let them into the garage area without letting Quintanilla know.

As pal Valeria Cazares Aranda, 28, filmed, Maria took a permanent black marker from her pocket and covered the gleaming white Mercedes with abuse, accusing him of being a "c**p s***", questioning the size of his manhood and being a 'junkie loser'.

Poll loading …