Mum took to the streets with a placard offering to sell her son to the highest bidder

Struggling parents tried to sell their son in a street auction to pay for life saving cancer treatment for his twin sister.

Shocking pictures show the mum of the twins standing on the streets in Qingdao, a major city in eastern Shandong Province, Eastern China, with a placard offering to sell her son to the highest bidder.

He was standing alongside his 29-year-old mum, Meng Xiangyan, as she appealed for someone to come forward and buy the boy.

CEN   Mum Meng Xiangyan has gone onto the street to try and raise the money for her ill daughter by selling their son who is the girl's twin.

His sister is suffering from acute leukemia and, though the mum said she and husband loved both of their children, their daughter would most certainly die unless they could get urgent medical treatment.

They were prepared to sell their son to a good home so that both would have a chance of life.

She said: "Up until a year ago we had a wonderful family and we thought we had everything we could need with a wonderful little boy and a wonderful little girl who are twins.

"But all that changed when my daughter was diagnosed as suffering from leukaemia in August of last year and we spent all of our savings and borrowed everything we could from friends and relatives.

“It still wasn't enough, and now we are hoping to raise cash from the sale of our son."

CEN   Mum Meng Xiangyan has gone onto the street to try and raise the money for her ill daughter by selling their son who is the girl's twin.

The family have sold up their apartment and everything in it and are now living in a tiny 10 square metre flat close to where the therapies are being carried out.

The parents are also struggling to heat the tiny apartment which is vital to prevent the child, weakened by chemotherapy, from suffering in the cold which could be fatal.

CEN   Mum Meng Xiangyan has gone onto the street to try and raise the money for her ill daughter by selling their son who is the girl's twin.

Their plight follows on from a recent similar story in which a woman was spotted trying to sell her baby daughter on the streets of China in order to pay her husband's £10,000 medical bill.

Ni Qiong was photographed roadside in Fuzhou, southeastern China, with a written sign imploring pedestrians to purchase her one-year-old daughter.

She and her husband, Zhou Xinggui, are both migrant workers, but he is currently in hospital needing surgery after falling off scaffolding.

Despite remaining on the street for four hours, no pedestrians offered to purchase her daughter.

His wife's sign read: 'Please buy my daughter.

'My husband is waiting for surgery fees in the hospital as his boss ran away. I would like to sell my daughter and save my husband.'

According to That's Magazines, she was also in possession of another poster that stated: 'Boss fled after industrial accident and we don't have the money for treatment. I'm willing to sell my child to save her father.'

Many locals who witnessed her in distress were sympathetic to her plight.

Although some gave her money, no-one offered to purchase her daughter in the four hours she sat in the street with the sign, the magazine reported.