News of guitarist Willie Nelson’s death spread quickly earlier this week causing concern among fans across the world. However the February 2015 report has now been confirmed as a complete hoax and just the latest in a string of fake celebrity death reports. Thankfully, the guitarist best known for hit songs like To All the Girls I've Loved Before or Pancho and Lefty is alive and well.

UPDATE 24/02/2015 : This story seems to be false. (read more)

Willie Nelson death hoax spreads on Facebook

Rumors of the guitarist’s alleged demise gained traction on Sunday after a ‘R.I.P. Willie Nelson’ Facebook page attracted nearly one million of ‘likes’. Those who read the ‘About’ page were given a believable account of the American guitarist’s passing:

“At about 11 a.m. ET on Sunday (February 22, 2015), our beloved guitarist Willie Nelson passed away. Willie Nelson was born on April 30, 1933 in Abbott. He will be missed but not forgotten. Please show your sympathy and condolences by commenting on and liking this page.”
Hundreds of fans immediately started writing their messages of condolence on the Facebook page, expressing their sadness that the talented 81-year-old guitarist and singer was dead. And as usual, Twittersphere was frenzied over the death hoax.

Where as some trusting fans believed the post, others were immediately skeptical of the report, perhaps learning their lesson from the huge amount of fake death reports emerging about celebrities over recent months. Some pointed out that the news had not been carried on any major American network, indicating that it was a fake report, as the death of a guitarist of Willie Nelson's stature would be major news across networks.

A recent poll conducted for the Celebrity Post shows that a large majority (90%) of respondents think those Willie Nelson death rumors are not funny anymore.

Willie Nelson Death Hoax Dismissed Since Guitarist Is ‘Alive And Well’

On Monday (February 23) the guitarist's reps officially confirmed that Willie Nelson is not dead. “He joins the long list of celebrities who have been victimized by this hoax. He's still alive and well, stop believing what you see on the Internet,” they said.

Some fans have expressed anger at the fake report saying it was reckless, distressing and hurtful to fans of the much loved guitarist. Others say this shows his extreme popularity across the globe.

© 2015 MediaMass All rights reserved. Do not reproduce (even with permission).