A PGA Tour golfer said he has sources who tell him that Tiger Woods is currently serving a one-month suspension for PED use. 

Tiger Woods has had a tough career as of late, plagued with injuries and surgeries that have complicated his strong golf swing, and now that he’s taken “a leave of absence” until his golf game is “tournament ready,” he’s facing criticism.

MORE FROM GOLF
3/2 - Tiger Woods’ Agent, PGA Refute Claims Of PED Suspension
3/1 - Rickie Fowler And Kid Rock Give Advice To Tiger Woods
2/28 - Ian Poulter’s Caddie Chases A Duck (Video)
2/27 - Rory McIlroy Thinks U.S. Is Desperate For Ryder Cup Win
2/25 - Yahoo Fantasy Golf Picks: The Honda Classic 2015
This criticism blew up Monday morning when professional, but not well-known PGA Tour golfer Dan Olsen went on a radio interview with David “Mad Dog” DeMarco on 730 WVFN’s The Game in Lansing, MI and claimed that Tiger Woods is serving a suspension for using PEDs.

“I heard he’s on a month suspension,” Olsen said. “And it’s kind of a strong witness, a credible person that’s telling me this… It’s not testosterone, but it’s something else. I think when it is all said and done, he is going to surpass Lance Armstrong with…a…infamy.”

WOW. Dan Olsen, who are you?

Olsen’s dislike for Tiger Woods must be really strong if he’s going to go on radio and make wild claims that haven’t been evidenced by anything or anyone else.

As if this wild claim wasn’t enough, Olsen went on to basically say that Tiger is just one big cheater and dragged Rory McIlroy into it.

“Tiger, he’s got some problems now,” Olsen said. “One of the big problems, Nike’s been giving Tiger a ball that I would almost bet hasn’t been tested…Rory played it too. Remember when Rory signed the Nike deal and he played like an amateur for a year? He was going to fail out of the contract unless he got the high-spin ball too… So if you go to Tour events, Nike pays them, pays the Tour staff and the range staff, they pay them to get all those balls back. That’s why Tiger would never sign a golf ball and give it away… He played a ball that nobody else could play.”

Again, wow. Dan Olsen is going all in on Tiger Woods, staking his reputation (which obviously isn’t much because most people have never heard of him) to call out Tiger as a cheater.

It’s a tough claim to believe, and one you don’t want to believe, either. Tiger Woods is one of the best golfers to play the game and when he’s done he’ll be remembered as the best.

Tiger has played two PGA Tour events this year and he missed the cut in Phoenix in January and withdrew from the Farmers Insurance Open in early February after suffering back pain. Because of his back surgery last summer, I guess it wouldn’t be shocking that Tiger would take PEDs, but IF he even has, they certainly haven’t helped him at all. And Tiger is a veteran, he knows about drug testing and he’s gone through it his whole career.

The claims by Olsen, who has played in 35 PGA Tour events in his career with no top ten finishes, seem farfetched and forced, but you can’t discount them completely. We’ll see if this prompts Tiger Woods or the PGA of America to make a statement denying these facts or coming clean on something that may or may not be true.