The duped mum ate her son - after being told it was cooked meat and rice but she is not the only one to have unwittingly eaten human flesh

Sick ISIS militants fed a desperate mum the mutilated remains of her son - after telling her it was cooked meat and rice.

The worried mum had bravely visited the terror group's headquarters in a bid to speak to her loved one who had been captured and taken prisoner by Islamic State militants in Mosul, Iraq.

ISIS fighters told the mum she should eat before seeing her son because she had travelled a long way.

However, after giving the mother cooked meat, rice and soup, she was horrified to be told she had just eaten her son.

There have been a number of real-life Hannibal Lecters who murder their victims in order to eat their flesh.

But there have also been people who have eaten human meat by accident such as David Scheiding who unwittingly ate some of a fast food employee's finger which had found its way into his chicken burger.

More sinister are those who have been forced to eat their own flesh or another's as part of a sadistic attack.

From an Irish gang who made their victim eat his own ear, to a mum who forced her sons to eat their own flesh.

Two sick attackers in Russia murdered a man before eating him and then selling the rest of his flesh to a kebab shop.

While alongside a range of disgusting crimes, warlord Joseph Kony forced a group of women to eat their own noses before returning them to their families as a warning to the community not to fight against him.

1. The Irishman who was forced to eat his own ear

Traumatised: Brendan Higginbotham was forced to eat his own ear after being attacked by a gang in Ireland

A man in Ireland was forced to eat his own ear by a gang who attacked him in 2011.

Brendan Higginbotham needed plastic surgery to repair horrific injuries inflicted on him by thugs in Newbridge, Co Kildare.

He was attacked by a gang in the town where he was dragged down a lane and then beaten with a hammer and a metal bar.

He was injured on his head, jaw and leg, as well as losing part of his ear.

A police spokesman John Joe O'Connell said at the time: "Part of this man's ear was cut off and he was actually forced to eat it."

Higginbotham was too traumatised to describe the incident in detail and said he wasn't going to press charges.

He said: "I just want to recover and get back to keeping myself busy, I'm glad I'm alive."

2. The pair who killed and ate their victim before selling him to a kebab van

Rex   Disgusting: Two men admitted killing and eating their victim before selling the meat to a Russian kebab stall

The killers were tracked down after police found human remains on the outskirts of the Russian town of Perm.

Two men confessed to stabbing the victim and then beating him with a hammer.

They then cut up his body and ate part of it, before selling some of it to a kiosk that sold doner kebabs and pies.

Investigators who searched the kiosk found no trace of the human remains.

Investigator Sergei Molchanov said: "The meat had already been either cooked or sold."

VIEW GALLERY

3. The Mum who helped to torture her own children

CEN   Sickening: Cannibal cult mum Klara Mauerova

Klara Mauerova, 31 and her sister Katerina led the sickening torture of her eight-year-old son Ondrej and his ten year-old brother Jakub.

She tortured her son in a locked cellar while relatives skinned him and forced him to eat his own flesh.

During the court case the two boys had told judges how their mother and relatives had stubbed cigarettes out on their bare skin, whipped them with belts, and tried to drown them.

They were also sexually abused and forced to cut themselves with knives.

The terrified youngsters said they were kept in cages or handcuffed to tables and made to stand in their own urine for days.

Klara, from the Czech Republic was jailed for ten years for her role in the sick torture.

She and her sister, both members of religious cult the Grail Movement, had refused to explain why they had tortured the boys.

4. The finger in the burger

Disgusting: A diner at Arby's unwittingly ate some of the manager's finger

In a genuine accident one fast food fan was sickened when part of the manager's finger ended up in his lunch.

David Scheiding sued the owners of fast food company Arby's after he bit into a burger and tasted the strange meat.

"It looked like I was seeing fingerprints on it," he said. "I got sick and went to the bathroom."

Health investigators talked to the restaurant manager, who had a bandage on his right thumb and wore a latex glove, according to a health district report.

The manager said he sliced skin from the thumb while shredding lettuce, and sanitized the area but didn't throw away the bin of lettuce, the report said.

Scheiding's sandwich contained lettuce.

5. The tyrant who forced women to eat their own noses

Reuters   Terrifying: One of the world's most wanted rebel chiefs, Joseph Kony of the Lord's Resistance Army

Notorious Joseph Kony, chief of the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda, has been responsible for a long list of horrific crimes including ordering the rape of captured women on a massive scale and kidnapping children who are forced to kill or be killed.

One particularly disgusting attack was meted out on a group of women Kony wanted to make an example of.

A woman called Laweel was told that she and 10 others were to be mutilated, and sent home alive as a warning to others not to join the fight against Kony's

They were lined up and kidnapped children were told to sharpen the knives and machetes laid there, and one by one the women had their noses, lips and ears cut off.

They were then made to eat their own flesh.