Gill Rosenberg, the Canadian Israeli volunteer fighting with Kurdish forces, posted on Facebook on Monday night that she was "safe and secure" and not captured by ISIS guerillas, as had been widely reported in the media. has apparently not been captured by the Islamic State, as widely reported in the media.

"Guy, I'm totally safe and secure. I don't have Internet access or any communication devices with me for my safety and security," the post continued. "I can't reply regularly and only happened to have a chance to log in and see these bullshit news stories. Ignore the reports I've been captured. Yalla, Acharai [after me]!" 

Haaretz was unable to verify that Rosenberg herself was responsible for the post.



A second post uploaded to Rosenberg's Facebook page half an hour later read: "All: On Behalf of Gill Rosenberg - please be advised that she is safe and sound. DO NOT listen to the reports for the past few days about kidnapping. I will update you again when I hear from her. Please keep her in your thoughts and prayers!! Thank you!"

Several Islamist blogs and websites reported last week that Rosenberg
had been captured by ISIS.

A blog considered to be one of the Islamic State's media arms reported that several female fighters who fought alongside the Kurds have been captured, among them Rosenberg. According to the report, prior to their capture Islamic State fighters made three suicide bombing attacks against Kurdish outposts, killing some and capturing many others.

Kurdish sources denied the reports, saying that Rosenberg wasn't in the area when it was attacked.

In her previous Facebook post on November 20, Rosenberg wrote that she would be without internet access for at least two weeks.

"My Facebook account and friend requests are being managed by someone else until I have access again in apx 2 weeks time on or around week of 12/8," she wrote at the time. "Please do not message as this is not me. Thank you."

Rosenberg, 31, a resident of Tel Aviv, joined the Kurdish troops against Islamic State in northern Syria earlier this month. According to reports, Rosenberg said she had contacted Kurdish fighters over the
Internet before traveling through Iraq to train at one of their camps on the Syrian border.

According to Walla, Rosenberg immigrated to Israel from Canada in 2006, leaving behind a career as a civilian pilot, and served for two years in the Israel Defense Forces. In 2009, she was extradited to the United States and jailed over an international phone scam, one of her former lawyers said.

Israel Radio aired an interview with Rosenberg earlier in November in which she said she had travelled to Iraq, was training with Kurdish guerrillas and would fight in neighboring Syria.

"They are our brothers. They are good people. They love life, a lot like us, really," she told Israel Radio, explaining her decision to enter the combat zone in northern Syria.