A woman who claims to be the girlfriend of Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps revealed in a Facebook post that she was born intersex, a fact she has not previously revealed to Phelps, among others.

Taylor Lianne Chandler, 41, wrote a lengthy post describing her early life, saying that at birth she had male genitalia with no testicles as well as a uterus, without ovaries. Born David Roy Fitch, she writes that she went on testosterone blockers and changed her name to Paige Victoria Whitney in her teens, then had surgery when she was in her 20s. She writes in a post she put up Nov. 13:

“By the time I could walk and talk I made it clear I was a girl and dressed as one. In my early teens I was medically diagnosed and went on testosterone blockers, at 15 estrogen enhancers. My birth certificate was modified along with my name while I was a teenager, prior to any corrective surgery. …

“The problem is I have made friends that I never told and dated and married people that knew nothing of my past,” she writes. “If you don’t understand what intersex is, Google it. I was never a man, never lived as a man. No one can say they knew me as a man or produce a photo of me as a man.”

According to the Intersex Society of America:

A general term used for a variety of conditions in which a person is born with a reproductive or sexual anatomy that doesn’t seem to fit the typical definitions of female or male. For example, a person might be born appearing to be female on the outside, but having mostly male-typical anatomy on the inside. Or a person may be born with genitals that seem to be in-between the usual male and female types.

Chandler, who writes that she thinks her revelation may cause Phelps to terminate their relationship, claims on a Facebook page filled with photos of Phelps that she met the 29-year-old swimmer on Tinder and said their relationship was “like a teenage love affair” and that they attended a Baltimore Ravens game on their first date. Phelps has not commented on the post and spent the month of October in rehab after his DUI arrest in September. He is serving a six-month suspension by U.S. Swimming and his DUI trial in Baltimore is set for Dec. 19.


On Wednesday, she wrote: “Heard from Michael he is out of rehab and back home” and added that she is frustrated with how her story is being reported.

“I never lied to him,” Chandler sayd. “We were together for such a short period of time, I never had a chance to tell him about my life.”