Phoenix, AZ — A Phoenix boy is behind bars tonight after his mother called 9-1-1 when she found her son in his room, watching pornography and masturbating. Phoenix Police were quick to respond, arresting 15-year-old Paul Horner, who attends North Valley High School in Phoenix, Arizona. Now the teenager is being held without bail and charged by prosecutors under a new controversial Arizona state law called ‘Self-Rape’, which carries a minimum of 3 years in prison with a maximum of 15 years behind bars depending on that individuals past criminal history.

This is the first time this new state law has been used since it was put into action last month by Arizona Governor Jan Brewer. Brewer spoke with local news station ABC 15 about the charges against the boy.

“I applaud the Arizona District court systems here in Phoenix,” Brewer said. “This is exactly why I implemented the state law of ‘Self-Rape’ last month and this is exactly what it is meant to be used for. Before my time as governor is up early next year, I’ll do whatever I can to ensure that tragedies like this don’t happen again. We need to educate our children about the dangers and consequences of masturbation before it’s too late.”

Horner, after hearing his charges by the Honorable Judge Stevens of the United States District Court in Phoenix, which included the brand new ‘Self-Rape’ state law, Horner immediately broke down into tears and had to be restrained by bailiffs.

Transcripts of the 9-1-1 call were released to the public:

“911, what’s your emergency?”

“Help! My son is watching porn and masturbating! That is not allowed in his house and I don’t know what kind of demons possessed him to degrade his body in such a matter. I’m so shakin’ up! Please send help immediately!”

32-year-old Adeline Horner, Horner’s mother, who is a self-proclaimed fanatical Baptist follower, told CNN she is still in shock.

“Up until now, my young, precious boy had no run-ins with the law, no drugs or alcohol, was a straight-A student, was in numerous extra curricular activities and played starting center on the boys Varsity basketball team,” Horner’s mother said. “But somewhere along the way he started playing on the Devil’s playground. Hopefully because of my quick thinking and actions my son will soon be able to get the help he so badly needs. I pray for it; please Jesus, save our family!”

Winters controversial actions have been applauded by some, for example, Lonnie Childs, president and founder of the federally funded Christian anti-masturbation organization STOP Masturbation NOW.

“STOP Masturbation NOW ministries have nominated Adeline Horner for our coveted Mother of the Year award,” Childs told reporters. “She really stepped up, provided moral discipline and leadership under such difficult conditions. My prayer app has been activated and I send this brave, courageous woman nothing but the best during these difficult times. I encourage you all all to do the same.”

A mascot for the Christian organization, Fappy The Ant-Masturbation Dolphin, whose real name is 36-year-old Paul Horner from Phoenix, Arizona, told reporters he is pleased with the justice served today and is confident this will set a precedent for all the would be masturbators out there.

“Fappy® has helped tens of thousands of adults and children around the world learn to live a masturbation-free lifestyle. During our visits to schools around the world, our organization has collected thousands of signatures from children promising to never masturbate; we have done great things. Our organization is passionate about the great work that we do. The children even have a nickname for Fappy®, they call him the tickle monster. Working side by side with such great women as Jan Brewer, we’re ridding the demons from these heathens pants, one pair of pants at a time. Fappy® vows to stay on this case until justice is served!”

Tom Downey with the Phoenix Police Department, who took the child into custody, spoke with Arizona news station Fox 10 News about the arrest.

“We thought at first he was possibly intoxicated or mentally unstable, ya know, talking about how we should leave him alone and just let him watch his filth, makes me sick! It’s a slippery slope my friend, one day it’s masturbating to porn, the next day it’s raping some innocent school girl. Thank God we got this heathen off the streets before another tragedy could have occurred.” Downey continued, “There’s no better feeling than putting the real bad guys behind bars. Nothing better than that. I know I can sleep better at night just knowing another criminal is off the streets.”

Officers confiscated the pornography and lube found in the teenagers room as evidence.

Prosecutors told local reporters that based on the severity of the crime, the new Arizona state law of Self-Rape [A.R.S. §§ 29-169 & 48-69] would carry a minimum of 3 years with a maximum of 15 years depending on that criminals past history.

Horner is currently being held at the Maricopa County Jail in Phoenix, Arizona. He presently has no bond set and the judge has restricted him from seeing visitors. Horner’s next scheduled court appearance is December 2nd.

Fappy The Anti-Masturbation Dolphin and Stop Masturbation Now are federally funded programs designed to teach both children and adults about the dangers and consequences of masturbation. For more information or if you would like the group to visit your child’s school call (785) 273-0325. To contact Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, call (602) 542-4331.

VIDEO: Mom Calls 911 On Masturbating Teenage Son; Boy Charged With ‘Self-Rape’