Rumors about a spring launch for the Apple Watch might be true; the latest reports tip a March arrival.
Cupertino is reportedly planning to hold "extensive testing programs" between Feb. 9 and 16 to acquaint Apple Store employees with the new product category. Citing anonymous sources, 9to5Mac suggested that store representatives will be sent to Apple offices in Cupertino or Austin for hands-on experience, which they will then pass on to in-store employees.
Apple unveiled its long-awaited smartwatch in early September, showing off the device, which comes in three variants with different bands: Apple Watch, Apple Watch Sport, and Apple Watch Edition.
       VIEW ALL PHOTOS IN GALLERY
Available in a 38mm or 42mm watch face, the device requires it be connected to an iPhone (5, 5c, 5s, 6, or 6 Plus). To juice it up, attach the circular, magnetic charger onto the back of the face. Press the dial, or digital crown, to access Siri, and just raise your wrist to call on apps, look at photos, follow turn-by-turn directions, and communicate with friends and family.
By November, reports were tipping a springtime ship date—after the Chinese New Year, according to the leaked transcript of a voice message shared by retail chief Angela Ahrendts with retail employees.
Apple review, Apple commentary, Apple news... Everything AppleNow that the holiday shopping season is over, overseas employees must prepare for the company's Chinese New year sale, which begins Feb. 19. Then, the Apple Watch.
Apple Chief Designer Jony Ive spoke about the future of the Apple Watch during a recent event at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, saying that he unequivocally believes that the watch will help "establish a new category of computing device."
But how can advertisers take advantage of Apple's wearable? Mobile marketing firm TapSense is providing a glimpse of its Apple Watch ad-buying service during this week's CES 2015 in Las Vegas. According to Reuters, TapSense's product would allow businesses to use the watch's applications to notify customers of special deals—but only in already-open apps, avoiding annoying pop-up ads.
For more, see PCMag's Hands On With the Apple Watch and the slideshow above. Also check out 5 Reasons the Apple Watch Is a Winner and 5 Wearables More Interesting Than the Apple Watch, as well as Understanding Apple's Watch Strategy.