The rumour that Banksy has been arrested has been circulating on the internet

An article has started circulating on Twitter today claiming that Banksy has been arrested.

The story on "news" website National Report says that Banksy was arrested in Watford after been tracked by a "24-hour Anti-Graffiti Task Force".

Stories crop up all the time claiming to reveal the true identity of the guerrilla graffiti artist, but this one is particularly ridiculous.

The National Report have also produced this video which claims to prove his arrest.

Video loading

Here's why it's definitely a hoax...

1. Banksy isn't from Liverpool

He's from Bristol according to his Wikipedia.

2. There's no London Police force

There's the Metropolitan Police and the City of London Police, both used interchangeably in the article.

3. There's no London Police Chief called Lyndon Edwards

We call them The Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis. And he is Sir Bernard Hogan Howe.

4. Police don't release pictures of people being arrested

Nope. They definitely don't do that.

5. Met Police don't cover the Watford area.

That's Hertfordshire Police's job.

6. The website it comes from is full of spurious stories

Other headlines on the site include 'Kanye West applies for refugee status' and 'Miley Cyrus replaced by double in 2010'.

7. The same article was circulating last year as a press release

Before Banksy was Paul William Horner a 39 year old, rather than Paul Horner, a 35-year old.

8. The picture of him being arrested is from Notting Hill Carnival 2012

Put that picture URL into Google images and you get pictures from Carnival.

9. And as if you needed any more proof, Banksy's PR has confirmed it is a hoax

@JDBeauvallet it's a hoax— jo brooks (@brightonseagull) October 20, 2014

Nevertheless it looked real enough to fool many people - including former Tory MP Louise Mensch.

You have to be kidding me, @metpoliceuk. Banksy? There are so many criminals out there, Banksy? The great artist?— Louise Mensch (@LouiseMensch) October 20, 2014

But it's definitely a hoax, Banksy's secret is still safe for now. Everyone back in your boxes until the next rumour appears.

Banksy’s real identity has been a closely kept secret ever since his work emerged in 1992.

Initially it was rumoured he was born Robin Banks, a former butcher.

However, more recently people believe he could be Robin Gunningham, who enjoyed a middle-class upbringing in Bristol.

During a rare interview he was described as “a cross of Jimmy Nail and British rapper Mike Skinner”.

Banksy has also claimed his parents think he is a painter and decorator.

VIEW GALLERY