THIS is the terrible moment a desperately poor young woman tries to sell her son – to fund life-saving treatment for her daughter.

Mum Meng Xiangyan faced a real-life Sophie's Choice when poverty forced her to decide between her twins.

The distraught 29-year-old said that she and her husband loved both of their children.

But with certain death awaiting their daughter unless they could get medical treatment, they were prepared to sell their son to a good home so that both would have a chance of life.

Pictures published in local media show her standing on Weihai Road in Qingdao, which is a major city in eastern Shandong Province, Eastern China, with a placard offering to sell him to the highest bidder.

He was eating what appeared to be candied fruit and standing alongside his mother as she appealed for someone to come forward and buy the boy.

She said: "Up until a year ago we had a wonderful family and we thought we had everything we could need with a wonderful little boy and a wonderful little girl who are twins.

"But all that changed when my daughter was diagnosed as suffering from leukaemia in August of last year and we spent all of our savings and borrowed everything we could from friends and relatives. It still wasn't enough, and now we are hoping to raise cash from the sale of our son."

Medics say that the child is suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia and needs urgent medical treatment that includes chemotherapy every 10 days at the Rizhao Municipal Hospital.

The family have sold up their apartment and everything in it and are now living in a tiny 10 square metre flat close to where the therapies are being carried out. The parents are also struggling to heat the tiny apartment which is vital to prevent the child, weakened by chemotherapy, from suffering in the cold which could be fatal.

So far, there have been no offers on their son, who has not been named.

Their desperation follows on from a similar recent story in which a woman was spotted trying to sell her baby daughter on the streets of China in order to pay her husband's £10,000 medical bill.

Ni Qiong was photographed roadside in Fuzhou, southeastern China, with a written sign imploring pedestrians to purchase her one-year-old daughter.

She and her husband, Zhou Xinggui, are both migrant workers, but he is currently in hospital needing surgery after falling off scaffolding.

Despite remaining on the street for four hours, no pedestrians offered to purchase her daughter.

His wife's sign read: "Please buy my daughter. My husband is waiting for surgery fees in the hospital as his boss ran away. I would like to sell my daughter and save my husband."

In the four hours she sat with the sign, no-one bought her daughter.