THIS is definitely NOT how to propose to your girlfriend.

A hopeless romantic determined to see his proposal go off with a bang ended up burning down his entire college sports hall with a box of fireworks - bought to mark the special occasion.

Dim Xiong Chien, 22, took three large boxes of fireworks on to campus, which he planned to set off as he got down one knee to pop the question to girlfriend Cong Yen, also 22.

But, when Ms Yen forgot to turn up, the young man ignited the fireworks anyway in the hope that she would see them and go and see what was happening.

However, the planned stunt went horribly wrong when the illuminations set fire to dry grass at the Liaoning Advertisement Vocational College in the city of Shenyang, in north-eastern China's Liaoning province.

A friend, Shin Tan, 21, explained: "He had prepared this big event in secret and had told her to meet him by the sports ground for a romantic walk.

"She had no idea he was planning to propose though, and clearly forgot all about the walk."

As firemen rushed to the scene to put out the three-metre high flames engulfing the grass, Mr Chien went to look for his forgetful girlfriend.

He said he was "completely unaware" the fireworks had set fire to the grass.

He said: "I was feeling a bit surprised that she hadn't shown up, and was completely unaware that the fireworks had set the grass on fire.

"When I found her I said she had to come with me as there was something important I wanted to tell her and show her."

However the disastrous proposal has not put the young romantic off.

Mr Chien added: "As we approached the sports hall we saw all these flames and firemen and I decided to postpone the proposal to another date."

Bewildered Ms Yen told local TV: "I found out later that he wanted to ask me to marry him.

"Of course, I love him, but my parents have told me to steer clear, saying he can't even ask me to marry him without causing a massive hoo-ha."

It took firemen over an hour to extinguish the blaze.

A college spokesman added: "The hall is covered by insurance and we have yet to make a decision about how to punish this student."