Taylor Lianne Chandler - who says she is in love with the swimmer - revealed on Facebook that she was called David Roy Fitch at birth

VIEW GALLERY

A woman who claims to be the girlfriend of swimming superstar Michael Phelps has revealed she was born a boy.

Taylor Lianne Chandler - who says she is in love with the swimmer - revealed on Facebook that she was called David Roy Fitch at birth.

She said during her teens she changed her name and used testosterone blockers before having surgery to remove her male genitalia in her early 20s.

As reported by Mail Online, writing on Facebook, she said: "I was never a man, never lived as a man. No one can say they knew me as a man or produce a photo of me as a man."

The 41-year-old added: "There are people that remember me as an androgynous child at times because of what was forced upon me."

Phelps, 29, has an astonishing 22 Olympic medals making him the most decorated Olympian of all time.

Getty   Successful: Michael Phelps is the most decorated Olympian of all time

However, he is currently suspended from swimming for six months after he was arrested for drink driving.

Chandler claims the pair met on dating app Tinder and described their sex life as "amazing".

Speaking to the National Enquirer, she spoke about her sex life with Phelps.

"The intimacy with him was amazing! It was the first time in my life that someone has made me feel like a true woman," she said.

Chandler now fears Phelps could 'leave her' after she revealed her past.

Last month, Phelps was handed a six-month suspension by USA swimming following his recent DUI arrest

Phelps recently returned to top-level competition after a two-year sabbatical, but has been suspended following his arrest on September 30

Video loading            Watch next        Watch this video again  Watch Next

And USA Swimming has also issued a statement declaring that the most decorated Olympian of all time will not represent his country at the World Championships in Russia next August.

The suspension means Phelps will be unable to compete in USA Swimming-sanctioned events for six months and will not be eligible to swim again until March 2015.

Phelps was arrested in Baltimore for drink-driving, while he was also charged with excessive speed and crossing double lane lines.

Police said the 29-year-old was clocked by radar travelling 84mph in a 45mph zone at around 1.40am.

Police said he failed a series of field sobriety tests and had a blood-alcohol content of 0.14%, well above the legal limit of 0.08%.

Phelps has won a total of 22 medals at the Olympic Games, including 18 golds.

Back in August he won three golds and two silvers at the Pan Pacific Championships.