The images show the victim being battered as shoppers and workers pass by

VIEW GALLERY

This is the shocking moment a woman accused of sleeping with someone else's husband was savagely beaten in broad daylight as passers-by watched on.

It's the latest in a string of copycat attacks in China, including one a month ago when a half-naked woman was stamped on by a stiletto-wearing rival.

Locals say such scraps go ignored because there is an acceptance that love cheats are deserving of a beating having caused a man to cheat on his partner.

In this latest incident, accused Lin Yao Li, 38, was ambushed by four women as she walked home from shops in Puyang, in eastern China's Henan Province.

CEN   Savage: Lin Yao Li was accused of sleeping with another woman's husband

Punching and kicking her to the ground while she writhed in agony, her attackers then ripped her clothes off and continued the beating, pulling her hair and kicking her in the breasts and groin.

Local reports say the sickening attack was carried out by the scorned wife of the man Lin is accused of sleeping with and her three friends.

Meanwhile, as the stomach-turning drama unfolded, scores of people pass by without making an attempt to help the outnumbered and defenceless victim.

Local man Jun Feng, 30, who helped the woman after spotting her lying on the ground told local TV: "This type of thing is becoming quite normal.

"Angry wives and girlfriends get their revenge on their cheating men by attacking the other woman.

"People don't tend to get involved because they see it as being an argument of the heart."

CEN   Brutal: Lin Yao Li was stripped naked and beaten in public

The woman was later taken to hospital where she was treated for cuts, severe bruising and shock.

Last month's attack in Jinan city, in Eastern China's Shandong Province, saw three women caught on camera attacking an alleged mistress.

Video loading

And another attack was caught on camera in July in China's south-eastern city of Yulin, Guangxi province.

A police spokesman declined to comment, saying they had not received any complaint from any of those involved.

Poll loading …