Kevin Michael Vickers, Canada’s Sergeant-at-Arms, is being hailed as a hero after shooting a Parliament Hill gunman in Ottawa.
Suspected shooter Michael Zehaf-Bibeau entered the Hall of Honour at around 10 a.m. Wednesday after soldier Nathan Frank Cirillo was fatally shot at the National War Memorial just off Parliament property.
CTV’s Craig Oliver reported Zehaf-Bibeau was carrying a firearm when he walked into the building.
PM Harper to address nation tonight; Parliament lockdown reinstated
Eyewitnesses describe fear, confusion as gunshots fired in Ottawa
“Kevin Vickers came out of his office carrying a pistol, and apparently saw that he had a better shot, because the gunman had come in his direction,” Oliver reported, relaying a first-hand account from the scene.
Oliver said Vickers unloaded “a lot of shots,” killing Zehaf-Bibeau.
Vickers was a 29-year RCMP veteran when he took the position of director of security operations at the House of Commons in 2005.
As the Sergeant-at-Arms, Vickers is responsible for “safeguarding the authority of the House of Commons” and for “the safety and security of the Parliament buildings and their occupants, ensuring and controlling access to the House of Commons,” according to the government release announcing his appointment in 2006.
The 58-year-old has previously worked as an Aide-de-Camp for the Lieutenant Governor of New Brunswick, and has provided personal security for high-profile visitors like Queen Elizabeth and Prince Andrew.
Vickers has received several commendations throughout his career, including being recognized by the United States Drug Enforcement Agency for "outstanding contribution to drug enforcement."
According to Oliver, the security staff at Parliament Hill had been extensively trained for the scenario that unfolded Wednesday.
“They even have rehearsed how to hide behind the marble pillars you see at the top of the stairs and return fire,” he said. “That may have saved a lot of lives today.”
Several Members of Parliament thanked Vickers for his actions, including Justice Minister Peter MacKay and Veterans Affairs Minister Julian Fantino.
“MPs and Hill staff owe their safety, even lives, to Sergeant at Arms Kevin Vickers who shot attacker just outside the MPs' caucus rooms,” MP Craig Scott tweeted Wednesday.