Over the weekend, the Canadian police force of Newfoundland and Labrador posted a “wanted” status on Facebook looking for Rodney Constantine, a man wanted for assault and some outstanding warrants.

Apparently, Rodney Constantine himself commented on the post and is planning to turn himself in.

Constantine let police know he’ll be coming in “Monday morn,” but the RNC police politely reminded him that their facilities are open 24/7.

What proceeded was a weird and hilarious correspondence between police and Constantine in the comment section.

The RNC police told BuzzFeed News that they believe this is their guy, but he has yet to physically turn himself in.

“It’s hard to say if the person we found is the person, but it certainly seems that way,” Media Relations Officer Steve Curnew told BuzzFeed News.

Curnew also explained that they only turn to their social media outlets as a “last resort” if they can’t locate them by addresses on file. While police are hopeful they have the right Rodney Constantine, “no one by that name has turned themselves in yet.”

This is not the first or even second time a suspect has identified themselves to Newfoundland cops on Facebook.

Curnew says he’s not surprised Constantine has so casually commented on his own wanted post on Facebook — this has been the case at least twice before. “We’ve had it happen on one or two occasions that a person has contacted us,” Curnew explained to BuzzFeed News. “When you send it out on social media, word comes around quick.”

He also pointed out that Constantine might not have known he was even wanted.

“The person sometimes isn’t aware they have outstanding warrants. [He] may have just become aware that police are looking for him and he has nothing to hide.”

Meanwhile, Newfoundland residents still can’t quite get over it.

update

BuzzFeed News has learned Rodney Constantine kept his word and turned himself in to the local police station at 4:30pm NST, their local time. According to a Facebook update, he will face a provincial court judge in the morning.    BF_STATIC.timequeue.push(function () { document.getElementById("update_article_update_time_4760733").innerHTML = UI.dateFormat.get_formatted_date('2015-01-26 16:07:16 -0500', 'update'); });