Nikolai Kryaglyachenko, 12, now attracts coins, spoons and glasses to him - and had decided to become a superhero when he is older

A boy who was almost killed when he was knocked out by a huge electrical shock claims he has become a LIVING MAGNET with superpowers like those of Marvel's Magneto.

Nikolai Kryaglyachenko, 12, was blasted across the pavement when he leant briefly against a lamppost that was live from a faulty wire.

"When I came round I felt groggy but managed to get home and told my mum what had happened," he said.

"When I woke up the next day and got out of bed I found some coins that had been lying on the mattress had stuck to my body.

"Then when I was having breakfast and dropped my spoon, it stuck to my chest."

Europics   'Superpowers': Nikolai Kryaglyachenko wants to be a superhero when he grows up

Nikolai said he was a keen fan of comics and, believing that maybe he had developed some sort of super magnetic power to attract metal like Magneto, had decided to put it to the test.

"I can do things I couldn't do before but I don't have a lot of control over it," he said.

"Even when I do not want to do it, I still attract things.

"Once I even attracted a glass - it just moved towards me."

Nikolai added that he has now decided instead of a fireman he wants to be a superhero when he is older, saying that he would want to do something that helped people, and the job would certainly fulfil that role.

Europics   Look at me: Nikolai Kryaglyachenko 'performs' for his classmates

He has also found himself one of the most popular boys at school with many of his classmates asking him to demonstrate his superpowers, and Nikolai even claims that he seems to be able to share his power.

According to his classmates, he can influence others so that other people turn into live magnets as well.

Nikolai's classmate, Vika Balandina, said: "I could even hang a ladle on my nose."

Stories about "living magnets" began to appear at least in the middle of the 19th century.

In 2004, the story of a Russian factory worker Leonid Tenkaev and his family received extensive media coverage when he appeared to obtain the ability to attract objects after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster.

Europics   Cutlery collection: Nikolai Kryaglyachenko is a magnet for spoons and coins

Although people who have the ability to attract metal items are commonly referred to as "magnets," many of them can also hold plastic, glass, wood and paper items on their body.

Only some of them develop a "preference" for a particular material.

In 1990, as many as 300 "living magnets" gathered for a conference in Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria, after young woman Marinela Brankova demonstrated her amazing ability on TV.

The woman could hold 7 kilos of metal on a vertical palm.

Scientists say however that rather than people being magnetic, it is probably nothing more than unusually sticky skin.

VIEW GALLERY