NEW YORK — Pope Francis has given hope to gays, unmarried couples and advocates of the Big Bang theory. Now, he has endeared himself to dog lovers, animal-rights activists and vegans.

Trying to console a little boy whose dog had died, Pope Francis told him in a recent public appearance on St Peter’s Square that “paradise is open to all of God’s creatures”. While it is unclear whether the Pope’s remarks helped soothe the child, they were welcomed by groups such as the Humane Society and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA).

In his relatively short tenure as leader of the world’s one billion Roman Catholics since taking over from Benedict XVI, Pope Francis, 77, has repeatedly caused a stir among conservatives in the church.

He has suggested more lenient positions than his predecessor on issues such as homosexuality, single motherhood and unwed couples.

Theologians cautioned that Pope Francis had spoken casually, not made a doctrinal statement.

Reverend James Martin, a Jesuit priest and editor-at-large of America, a Catholic magazine, said he believed that Pope Francis was at least asserting that “God loves and Christ redeems all of creation”, even though conservative theologians have said paradise is not for animals. “He said paradise is open to all creatures,” Rev Martin said.

The question of whether animals go to heaven has been debated for much of the church’s history. Pope Benedict said during a 2008 sermon that when an animal dies, it “just means the end of existence on earth”.

Ms Christine Gutleben, senior director of the Humane Society, said Pope Francis’ apparent reversal of his predecessor’s view could be enormous. “If the Pope did mean that all animals go to heaven, then the implication is that animals have a soul. And if that is true, then we ought to seriously consider how we treat them because they mean something to God,” she said.

Ms Sarah Withrow King, director of Christian outreach and engagement at PETA, one of the most activist anti-slaughterhouse groups, said the Pope’s remarks could move Catholics away from consuming meat. But there are differing views.

Mr Dave Warner, a spokesman for the National Pork Producers Council, said in an email that it “certainly does not mean that slaughtering and eating animals is a sin”. THE NEW YORK TIMES