The 41-year-old is believed to be dating 29-year-old Olympic swimmer Micheal Phelps

Taylor Lianne Chandler was born David Roy Fitch circa 1973.

While she was given a male name she is actually intersex which means she had male genitalia but no testicles.

At the same time she also has a uterus and no ovaries.

From a young age she knew that she was in fact female and started to dress as a girl.

Facebook   Taylor Lianne Chandler

In her teens she used testosterone blockers and estrogen enhancers.

During this period her name was changed – she initially changed it to Paige Victoria Whitney.

She left home age 15 and by 16 she became legally emancipated from her family.

When Taylor was 18 she got in trouble with the police twice – for a bad cheque and then a DUI.

The following year she revealed she “thought it would be smart to blackmail someone” into giving her money for her surgery.

But as soon as she got the money she was arrested and charged for extortion.

(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/all.js#xfbml=1"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs); }(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));

Post by Taylor Lianne Chandler.

Taylor was forced to spend 30 days in jail – during which time she said she was ‘too ashamed’ to tell any of her family members.

Despite both her birth certificate and drivers licence proving she was female, she claims she was put in a cell with three men and was raped.

At some point in her twenties she underwent surgery to remove her male genitalia.

Since then she has campaigned for gender rights.

In 2001 Taylor was involved in an 'horrific' car accident which made her change her goals.

Facebook

Following a lengthy recovering period she returned to school to study sign language interpreting - and did a two year ITP.

She went on to get a degree in social and behavioural sciences.

In 2004 her dream of opening an online consignment shop came true when she launched Chandler's Designer Consignment.

By 2013 she had found her calling in life - working in crisis management and has consulted on numerous hight profile cases.

In August 2014 Taylor says she met Michael Phelps via the dating app Tinder and they stared to start.

On September 30 2014 her relationship with Olympian Michael was made public and she rose to prominence.

By that time she had fell in love with the swimmer who checked into rehab in September after being arrested for DUI.

Taylor found it was too difficult to continue interpreting after she was in the public eye.

Since telling him she was born intersex she is worried she will lose him.

On 14 November she announced on Facebook that she was an intersex baby.

VIEW GALLERY