Dan Olsen, a former-ish PGA Golfer, went on The Game 730 AM’s Mad Dog in the Morning on Friday, and lobbed some grenades at Tiger Woods.

“I’ve heard that he’s suspended,” said Olsen. “I’ve heard that he’s on a month suspension. And it’s kind of a strong witness. It’s a credible person that’s telling me this. It’s not testosterone but it’s something else. I think when it’s all said and done that he’s gonna surpass Lance Armstrong with infamy.”

Olsen also accused Woods of using shady golf balls, implied that there would be an institutional cover-up because the PGA needs to market Tiger, and insinuated that he’s faking his back injury. “His back’s not hurt,” Olsen said. “He was limping, and he was faking worse than I’ve ever seen him fake.”

ESPN obtained comment from the PGA, and Tiger Woods’ agent:

Ty Votaw, the executive vice president of the PGA Tour, denied any of the claims brought forth by Olsen.  “There is no truth whatsoever to these claims,” Votaw said. “We categorically deny these allegations.”

The Tour almost never comments on disciplinary matters. Woods said on Feb. 11 that he was taking a break to deal with the issues in his game after withdrawing during the first round last month of the Farmers Insurance Open. “Over the past year, Woods has withdrawn with an injury three times and now fallen outside of the 70 in the world. These claims are absolutely, unequivocally and completely false,” said Woods’ agent, Mark Steinberg, in a statement. “They are unsourced, unverified and completely ridiculous. The PGA Tour has confirmed that there is no truth to these claims.”

“I’ll be looked at as just some crazy f— nobody making accusations about Tiger,” Olsen acknowledged to ESPN.

It’s been hammered over and over by golf analysts that Tiger’s struggles in recent years have had more to do with his head than physical ailments. That being said, we’ll need much more than talk radio allegations to put Tiger into the same LIARFRAUDCHEATER category as Lance Armstrong. Time will tell if this story has legs.