Shocking video taken from inside an Afghanistan war zone reveals a Marine's unbelievable brush with death when a Taliban sniper's bullet hits him directly in the head as a fellow soldier's helmet cam catches it all.

The soldier survived to fight again following the 2013 insurgent ambush in the Now Zad District of Helmand Province thanks to his Kevlar-reinforced helmet.

It's a terrifying first-hand look at how close U.S. forces come to disaster each day as wars rage abroad.

Shocking video: A group of Marines fighting in the Now Zad District of Helmand Province in Afghanistan were ambushed by insurgents when a sniper's bullet struck one of them directly in the helmet. Video captured the shocking moment. From right to left, the group are seen leaving a desert building when the bullet hits the helmet (center and left) and lefts up a piece of fabric on the Kevlar reinforced helmet

Minor damage: The Marines run back to safety and the piece of fabric can clearly be seen missing from the Marine's helmet

'A Taliban sniper managed to get a non-fatal headshot on a Marine's helmet while the Marines were conducting a joint helicopter raid in the Now Zad district,' wrote Sam Arnold, who uploaded the video to YouTube.

According to Arnold, the sniper shot was part of a 'U-shaped ambush by insurgents.'

The video starts as three Marines prepare to leave the protection of the ruins of a desert building. Just before they leave, the bullet hits.

Ringing in the ears: The Marine suffered some ringing in the ears but was otherwise okay following his brush with death

The struck Marine can clearly be seen falling back after the bullet hits him and all three men quickly retreat to safety.

'You lucky son of a b****,' one of the Marines marvels.

The men all inspect the helmet that saved him and the only evidence it shows of the impact is a missing piece of cloth.

The Marine himself says he's fine, too, minus some ringing in the ears, before the group all moves on to fight other battles.

'You lucky son of a b****': The group marvel at the lifesaving helmet before moving on to fight other battles