Bloodthirsty militants in Iraq released a horrific video on Tuesday that shows the apparent beheading of American journalist James Wright Foley — with the execution aimed at forcing President Obama to put an end to US airstrikes.

Foley, a 40-year-old photojournalist kidnapped in 2012, was forced to recite anti-American hatred from his Islamic State in Iraq and Syria captors as his final words before a masked killer put the knife to his neck.

The video — which was posted on YouTube until the site yanked it down — shows Foley dressed in prisoner orange and on his knees in the desert area. His head is shaved. Behind him is a man covered head to toe in black. It’s titled “A Message to America.”

“Any attempt by you, Obama, to deny Muslims liberty and safety under the Islamic caliphate, will result in the bloodshed of your people,” an Islamic State of Iraq and Syria terrorist says in reference to US airstrikes in Iraq.

A stone-faced Foley — who was last seen on Thanksgiving 2012 while working for Agence France-Presse — then bravely reads a clearly coerced statement.

“I call on my friends family and loved ones to rise up against my real killers, the U.S. government. My message to my beloved parents: Save me some dignity and don’t accept any meager compensation for my death from the same people who effectively put the last nail in my coffin,” he said.

“I call on my brother who is in the Air Force. I call on you, John. Think about who made the decision to bomb Iraq. Who did they really kill? Did they think about me you and our family when they made that decision? I died that day, John. When your colleagues dropped that bomb, they signed my death certificate. I wish I had more time. I wish I had the hope of seeing my family one more time.”

As a final insult, his last forced words were, “I guess all-in-all I wish I wasn’t American.”

The video then shows another American — Time journalist Steven Joel Sotloff — and the group says he is next unless the US backs off.

He is being held by the collar as he kneels in the desert, also wearing prisoner orange and a shaved head.

Sotloff was abducted in Syria in August 2013. His last Tweet was about his hometown Miami Heat.

“The life of this American citizen, Obama, depends on your next decision,” the masked man says.

White House National Security Council Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden said they’re analyzing the video of the beheading to determine its authenticity.

“If genuine, we are appalled by the brutal murder of an innocent American journalist and we express our deepest condolences to his family and friends,” Hayden said.

ISIS had warned the US of the potential murder in an earlier video saying, “We will drown all of you in blood” in retaliation for US airstrikes that have been pounding them.

Several senior U.S. officials with direct knowledge of the situation said the Islamic State very recently threatened to kill Foley to avenge crushing airstrikes over the last two weeks against militants advancing on Mount Sinjar, the Mosul dam and the Kurdish capital of Irbil.

US Rep. Peter King (R-NY) said the video reveals ISIS for the true murders they are.

“ISIS is the worst of the worst,” King said. “These guys are truly animals.… We have to go after them and destroy them.”

Foley family friend Holly Rene, who lives in their hometown of Rochester, NH, told The Post, “These savages have got to be stopped. It’s coming West.”

She said the family is “falling apart with grief.

“I was just so hopeful Jimmy had, if they weren’t going to get any good news, that he would have been dead for a long time now and there was no suffering involved. And to think he went through two years just to have this ending, it’s beyond belief.”

Foley’s family had set up website to plead for Foley’s return — and urged patience on Tuesday.

“We know that many of you are looking for confirmation or answers,” the Find James Foley Facebook wrote: “Please be patient until we all have more information, and keep the Foleys in your thoughts and prayers.”

Foley, one of five children, had been captured previously in Libya for 45 days in 2011.

He graduated from Marquette University in 1996 and later studied journalism at Northwestern University.

He penned a letter to Marquette Magazine thanking the community for its prayers when he was captured in Tripoli with two colleagues. He recounted getting to call his mother from prison and learning of the university’s prayer vigil for his release.

“If nothing else, prayer was the glue that enabled my freedom, an inner freedom first and later the miracle of being released during a war in which the regime had no real incentive to free us,” Foley wrote. “It didn’t make sense, but faith did.”