RESIDENTS fear a mechanical six-foot-tall carol singing bear could be hit with an ASBO after receiving complaints his festive tunes were causing a noise nuisance.

Although the bear, named Bernard by staff at The Loft café in Ampthill Road, Shefford, stands outside each day bringing joy to passing children who run past him trying to make him sing and dance, it would seem he doesn’t make everyone so merry.

On Monday an enforcement officer from Central Bedfordshire Council visited the café to inform staff that there had been complaints made about Bernard’s singing because he was causing a public nuisance.

According to staff at The Loft, opened by husband and wife team Rob and Teresa Farndon in October last year, Bernard was out every day in December last year spreading some festive cheer without any complaints being made and has been put away at 4pm every night since he took up his post again two weeks ago.

Employee Abbie McGee said: “The children love him and there’s even one woman who used to put 20p in his pocket every time she went past.

“As soon as you shut the door you can’t hear him anymore, he isn’t loud. I can’t believe there have been complaints, is no-one allowed to have fun anymore? It seems really silly that someone would moan about a bear when we’re on the high street where there is constant noise from the pubs and traffic.

“He only sings Christmas songs.”

Ellen, a regular at The Loft, who has asked for her last name not to be used, said: "Bearing in mind that he is not 'singing' loudly and actually cannot be heard in the cafe, I and a great many others in town fail to understand the problem.

"There are so many issues that do require council attention locally that I find it ludicrous that taxpayers' money is being used to effectively gag this popular 'toy'. Notwithstanding the fact that it is Christmas time and with all the serious issues people have to deal with on a daily basis its actually great to see people smiling as they walk or drive past and see him singing and dancing away.

"I fear he could end up with an ASBO and that would be more than I could bear."

A spokesman for Central Bedfordshire Council said: “We have received one complaint regards a Christmas carol-singing bear and have visited the premises on a number of occasions and, while Bernard has not been deemed a nuisance, we have written to both parties, explaining the situation as part of an ongoing investigation. 

"The council takes noise complaints seriously and has a legal obligation to fully investigate them, but we also want everyone in Central Bedfordshire to enjoy themselves over the Christmas period and would urge residents and business owners alike to be mindful of their neighbours and the local community when planning festivities.”

Central Bedfordshire Council would like to make clear no ABSO proceedings have been brought against Bernard nor has he officially been 'gagged'.