British authorities previously declined to name the suspect due to 'operational reasons'

The Islamic State militant known as Jihadi John has been named today as Mohammed Emwazi.

The Washington Post and the BBC both named Emwazi as the Londoner seen in a series of horrific beheading videos.

They report that he was known to the security services but they had chosen not to disclose his name for 'operational reasons'.

The Washington Post said Emwazi, a former Westminster University student from west London, was believed to have travelled to Syria around 2012 and to have later joined IS.

Scotland Yard today refused to confirm the reports.

Commander Richard Walton, head of the Met's Counter Terrorism Command, said: "We have previously asked media outlets not to speculate about the details of our investigation on the basis that life is at risk.

"We are not going to confirm the identity of anyone at this stage or give an update on the progress of this live counter-terrorism investigation."

Jihadi John has appeared in a number of shocking videos where he is thought to have beheaded a number of western hostages.

Among those were British aid workers David Haines and Alan Henning.

Emwazi, who was given the nickname Jihadi John after freed hostages revealed he and other British ISIS members were 'jokingly' likened to the Beatles, first appeared in a video last August, when he appeared to kill the American journalist James Foley.

Video loading

Refresh automatically On | Off   The Islamic State militant known as Jihadi John is reported to have been unmasked as Londoner Mohammed Emwazi.According to the reports, the man who has been seen in a series of horrific beheading videos is a British man from west London who was known to the security services.For more, read on.     12:25 pm   Listen to Jihadi John's accent In this video you can hear the distinct London accent of the feared terrorist who has now been unmasked as Emwazi.He has appeared in several videos where he issues warning to the UK, America and other countries in the west.            Video loading                                           12:22 pm  Andy Lines   Neighbours in shock The Mirror's Andy Lines is down at the scene where Emwazi grew up in Queen's Park, north west London.He reports that neighbours are stunned at the news that the young man has been unmasked as the feared terrorist Jihadi John.Outside Jihadi John's home in west London. In dark red brick small block. Neighbours genuinely shocked at this morning's revelation.— Andy Lines (@andylines) February 26, 2015     12:20 pm   Reign of terror The man known as Jihadi John has appeared in a series of sickening videos showing the brutal murder of innocent men.He first came to light in August last year when a gruesome video was posted online showing him holding US hostage James Foley.The video then cut away, before then focusing on the journalist's decapitated body.It was the first in a number of shocking videos that later included two British men, David Haines and Alan Henning, two further American's and two Japanese men.         12:10 pm   PM 'concerned' about name Asked if David Cameron was concerned about Emwazi's name being reported, a No 10 spokeswoman said: "The Prime Minister would be concerned about information being put into the public domain at any time that might jeopardise ongoing police or security investigations or the safety of British citizens."There is an ongoing investigation. It is absolutely right that we allow the police and security agencies to do all they can to bring those responsible to justice and to help keep British people safe."   Getty         12:06 pm   Radicalisation study group: "Name is correct" A statement from the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation at King's College London said: "We believe that the identity and name published by the Washington Post and now in the public realm to be accurate and correct."'Jihadi John' is not special, in the sense that all the foreign fighters have tried to hide their identity by using pseudonyms or literally by masking themselves."The fact that 'Jihadi John' has been unveiled in this manner demonstrates that whatever efforts are made, the ability to mask one's identity is limited or in fact impossible, and their true identities will eventually be revealed."This demonstrates what we have long said about radicalisation, that it is not something driven by poverty or social deprivation. Ideology clearly plays a big role in motivating some men to participate in jihadist causes."British fighters have clearly demonstrated that they are not in this conflict to take a back seat. They are full participants in this war, operating as suicide-bombers, hostage-takers, and executioners."         12:04 pm   Name 'confirmed' by US sources The American news network ABC has reported that it has had the 'true' identity of Jihadi John confirmed.The network reports: "A former senior U.S. intelligence official who was involved in the hunt for the man confirmed the name to ABC News."     12:00 pm   Beatles nickname Emwazi was given the nickname John by hostages owing to the fact that he and other British terrorists were holding them hostage.While he was John, another was called George.Although born in Kuwait, Emwazi reportedly grew up in a decent neighbourhood in west London - where he also went to university.It has been reported that he also occasionally prayed at a mosque in Greenwich, south London.     11:56 am   Jihadi John first appeared in shocking video The man known as Jihadi John rose to notoriety when he first appeared in a video posted online in August, in which he appeared to kill the American journalist James Foley.Dressed in all black with a balaclava covering all but his eyes and the ridge of his nose and a holster under his left arm, he reappeared in videos of the beheadings of US journalist Steven Sotloff, British aid worker David Haines and American aid worker Peter Kassig, as well as footage of Mr Henning's death.And last month, the militant appeared in a video with the Japanese hostages Haruna Yukawa and Kenji Goto, shortly before they were killed.   Nicole Tung   Murdered: James Foley        11:53 am   Emwazi 'expressed sympathy with terrorist' The Washington Post reports that Emwazi was upset when an al-Qaeda terrorist was convicted for the attempted murder of US nationals in Afghanistan.The American-trained neuroscientist Aafia Siddiqui has become a cause celebre in the Muslim world after she was jailed for 86 years for a shooting which took place while she was being questioned as an al Qaida suspect in Afghanistan in 2008.Following her conviction, Emwazi is alleged to have written that he had: "heard the upsetting news regarding our sister. . . . This should only keep us firmer towards fighting for freedom and justice!!!"Last year, ISIS called for the release of Siddiqui as a condition for sparing the life of US journalist James Foley.   Terrorist: Aafia Siddiqui        11:46 am   'Stopped by British authorities' It was shortly after this that Emwazi reportedly moved back to his birthplace of Kuwait.He had got a job working for a computer company but he still returned to London on two further occasions.The second time was to finalise wedding plans he had put in place for his girlfriend in Kuwait.According to Mr Quershi, he was stopped by counter-terror officers in the UK, who held him, took his fingerprints.It is claimed he was also stopped from flying back to Kuwait the following day, while intelligence officers investigated him further.In a frustrated email to Mr Quershi at the time in June 2010 he allegedly wrote: "I had a job waiting for me and marriage to get started."I feel like a prisoner, only not in a cage, in London. A person imprisoned & controlled by security service men, stopping me from living my new life in my birthplace and country, Kuwait.         11:40 am   'MI5 tried to recruit him' British security are reported to have tried to recruit Emwazi after he was stopped when he flew into Amsterdam.It is alleged that the young Londoner was accused of trying to reach Somalia, the 'headquarters' of terror group al-Shabab, but Emwazi refuted this and then told a pal how MI5 officers tried to recruit him.     11:36 am   'Radicalised in Tanzania' It is being reported that Emwazi started being radicalised after travelling to Tanzania for a safari following his graduation from the University of Westminster.The Washington Post reports that the Londoner, who is said to be his 20s, and a German convert to Islam named Omar and another man called Abu Talib became frustrated after they were held by police once they landed.The trio were held overnight in May 2009 and eventually deported.     11:31 am   Resemblance is "extremely strong" A representative of the British human rights group CAGE also spoke to the Washington Post and backed up the claims that Emwazi was the terrorist known as Jihadi John.The group is reported to have been in contact with Emwazi before he left for SyriaAsim Qureshi, research director at the rights group, said: "There was an extremely strong resemblance."This is making me feel fairly certain that this is the same person.”     11:25 am   Pal: 'He was like a brother to me' According to the Washington Post, Emwazi grew up in west London and graduated from university there with a degree in computer programming.It is being reported that he comes from a "well-to-do" family, some of who are believed to still live in the area, but that he travelled to Syria in 2012 - later joining the Islamic State.One of his friends, who asked not to be identified, said: "I have no doubt that Mohammed is Jihadi John. He was like a brother to me. . . . I am sure it is him.”      11:20 am   Police 'not confirming' Police have declined to comment on the reports that Jihadi John has been named.Commander Richard Walton of the Metropolitan Police's Counter Terrorism Command said: "We are not going to confirm the identity of anyone at this stage or give an update on the progress of this live counter-terrorism investigation."         11:18 am   West Londoner The true identity of the masked terrorist who has appeared in a series of shocking Islamic State videos has been revealed as Mohammed Emwazi.The west Londoner was said to have already been known by security forces in the UK before he gained infamy around the world.According to reports, his real name was not revealed for some time due to 'operational reasons'.Emwazi, who was given the name Jihadi John by some of his hostages, has appeared in a number of shocking videos where he is thought to have beheaded a number of western hostages.Among those were British aid workers David Haines and Alan Henning.     //<![CDATA[ var randomNumber=Math.floor(Math.random()*11); $LAB.queueScript("http://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js") .queueScript("http:\/\/s.mirror.co.uk\/resources\/js/tm.livenow.js?v=" + randomNumber) .queueWait(function(){ $("#live-now-5235081").liveNow({ "ajaxSrc" : "http:\/\/www.mirror.co.uk\/news\/uk-news\/article5235081.ece?service=ajax&profileIconCrop=s40&item=liveNow&entryId=", "interval" : "10000", "liveNowId" : "5235081", "latestEntryId" : "5235722", "lowestEntryId" : "5235114", "generateEntriesOnClientLiveNowClosed" : "", "numberOfLiveNowUpdatesId" : "", "showNumberOfLiveNowUpdatesId" : "", "resetLiveNowEntriesCounterId" : "", "reverseNewEntries" : false }); }); //]]>