High quality global journalism requires investment. Please share this article with others using the link below, do not cut & paste the article. See our Ts&Cs and Copyright Policy for more detail. Email ftsales.support@ft.com to buy additional rights. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e7098c76-b7c3-11e4-981d-00144feab7de.html#ixzz3SEYtFDZh

Shane Smith, the co-founder and chief executive of Vice Media, has taken his place among the high-rollers in Las Vegas after winning $1m at the Bellagio casino and spending $300,000 of his winnings on a meal for more than 30 employees and business partners.
The lavish meal at Bellagio’s Prime Steakhouse took place during the Consumer Electronics Show. It included bottles of wine costing $15,000 each and was so expensive it merited a mention on the quarterly earnings call of MGM Resorts, the group which owns the Bellagio and other Las Vegas casino hotels.
More
ON THIS TOPIC
Vice eyes 2015 ‘deal spree’ and IPO plans
Vice Media’s value increases to $2.5bn
IN MEDIA
LinkedIn to let marketers track users
Oborne fires broadside on Telegraph exit
Sky’s centre forward sets a tough goal
Virgin to spend £3bn extending its network
Sign up now

firstFT
FirstFT is our new essential daily email briefing of the best stories from across the web
Jim Murren, MGM Resorts chief executive, told analysts on the call that he had not seen a meal with such a hefty price tag since 2007. “It tells you there is a release valve that has opened,” Mr Murren said. “That isn’t a trend, but it’s a sign people are ready to spend money again.”
Despite the meal’s eye-watering price tag, Mr Smith is not the biggest spending media chief executive to play the Las Vegas tables. Kerry Packer, the late Australian billionaire, was a regular in Las Vegas and was known to bet as much as $150,000 a hand. His visits to casinos often made the difference between gaming operators reporting profits or losses in their quarterly earnings.
Mr Smith’s identity as the buyer was first revealed by Bloomberg. He declined to comment on the meal.
However, Vice Media is not lacking in confidence. The youth-focused company will go on a “deal spree” in 2015 and explore an initial public offering if market conditions remain favourable, Mr Smith told the FT in December.
The company has strengthened its senior management team with the appointment of James Schwab, a mergers and acquisitions lawyer, as co-president, who will help oversee a $500m “war chest” for content, technology and distribution deals.
“Vice will go on a deal spree in 2015,” said Mr Smith. “Our war chest is the size of the full valuation of our competition so we will see some major . . . deals happen.”
From the archive

Vice eyes 2015 ‘deal spree’ and possible IPO
The Vice Media Inc. application (app) is demonstrated on an Apple Inc. iPhone 5s for an arranged photograph in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Monday, Aug. 11, 2014. Vice Media, backed by billionaire Rupert Murdoch, has said that it's poised to double revenue to $1 billion by 2016. Co-founder Shane Smith had said a March interview with Bloomberg Television that Vice Media may pursue an initial public offering. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg
Continue reading
The $500m fund came from A&E Networks, which invested $250m in Vice recently for a 10 per cent stake, valuing the company at $2.5bn. Technology Crossover Ventures, the Silicon Valley fund that has stakes in Facebook and Netflix, also invested $250m in the group.
Vice, which in 2013 also took a strategic stake from 21st Century Fox, wanted to stay independent, said Mr Smith. “We would be stupid not to think about an IPO.”
The company has recently been engaged in a war of words with Gawker, a rival site, which has in several stories accused Vice of underpaying its employees. Vice hit back in a blog post, accusing Gawker of “garbage, click-bait journalism” and “inaccurate and irresponsible” reporting.