While other global leaders rant their exasperations and anger towards the extremists ISIS fighters and its entire caliphate, one leader may just take matters in his own hands. Jordan's King Abdullah II, visibly shaken and angered over the death of one of his kingdom’s military pilots, has vowed to exact revenge. Reports in Arabic-language newspapers hinted he may don his pilot suit and drop the bombs himself.

Photos have emerged over the Internet of a poker-faced Jordan King Abdullah II who was wearing a fatigue green army uniform. The reports emerged after the Jordanian leader vowed a relentless war against the ISIS right on their own territory. The portal dailycaller said the king leader, a trained pilot, “may fly a bomber himself on Thursday.”

The news of the burning of Jordanian pilot First Lieutenant Moaz al-Kasasbeh by the ISIS happened while the king was in the U.S. King Abdullah is a strong ally of Washington and London. Al-Kasasbeh got captured when the F-16 fighter he was flying crashed over the jihadi Syrian headquarters in Raqqa in December. He had been burned alive in a cage by the terrorist army. In a closed-door meeting with U.S. lawmakers following the video’s release, King Abdullah II said the ISIS will see a retribution it hasn’t seen before.

Safi al-Kaseasbeh, the pilot's father, said earlier the 53-year-old monarch had personally attended to the coordination for the release of his son, which had ended in vain. “The King told me that he was following up personally on Muath’s case," the grieving father told the Jordan Times. "He said Crown Prince Hussein, may God protect him, is no dearer to me than Muath.” The younger al-Kaseasbeh had graduated from King Hussein Air College, the academy named for Abdullah's father.

King Abdullah said they will pursue the black-clad terrorist army until they ran “out of fuel and bullets.” Quoting lines from the ‘Unforgiven,’ a movie led by American actor Clint Eastwood, he said the death of one of Jordan’s sons will call not only for the death of his killers, but also their “wives and all their friends, and burn his damn house down.”

Duncan Hunter, California Republican Rep., told the Washington Examiner that King Abdullah II has called his officials to arrange “more sorties than they've ever had. They're starting tomorrow.” Mohammad Momani, Jordanian government spokesman, quoted by Fox News, said the country’s response to the assassination “...will be swift. Jordanians’ wrath will devastate Daesh’s ranks.”

"All the State's military and security agencies are developing their options. Jordan's response will be heard by the world at large but this response on the security and military level will be announced at the appropriate time," Momani said.

Jon Alterman, director of the Center for Strategic & International Studies' Middle East Program, told Fox News that Jordan’s words were not just mere lip service or emotional outbursts. "Their ability to do difficult things with small numbers of highly trained people is up there with some of the best militaries in the world."

David Schenker, former adviser to Defense Secretary Donald Rumseld and director of the Arab politics program at The Washington Institute, said Jordan's military force, "regionally speaking, they are people of high quality."

To report problems or to leave feedback about this article, e-mail: e.misa@ibtimes.com.au.