A blogger has claimed that she aborted her baby when she discovered it was a boy because of bad experiences with men.

In her blog, the author, known only as Lena, wrote that she found out she was pregnant in 2012 and describes the father as ‘the donator’.

Describing the pregnancy as a ‘diagnosis’ she said that she was ready to have a child.

She also claims to be a feminist, fighting women’s rights ‘to the point of eschewing a career’.

But from her writing – if what she’s saying is actually true – she appears to be something of a misandrist.

She wrote: ‘One of the more prominent themes that I saw in these places was that men generally would look down on us, refuse to help us, or hardly even lend an ear so that we could air our grievances.’

For those that can stomach it, here’s the blog in full

MORE: Pregnant woman who shut down anti-abortion protesters leads to calls for ‘buffer zones’

waaiit some lady aborted her fetus because it was a boy, in the name of feminism. c'mon. really?

— DonJuan Cherry Tempo (@premanilla) February 10, 2015

Wow…. self proclaimed feminist aborts child because her "body had betrayed" her with a male fetus. " I was in… http://t.co/OwAfunhDSO

— Glenn AKA WiredPig (@WiredPig) February 8, 2015

With a mother like this, this fetus was lucky to be aborted http://t.co/WZjAe7FmFn via @AureliusPundit

— Barbara Kay (@BarbaraRKay) February 9, 2015

So when she went for an ultrasound on the baby and it turned out to be a boy, she reacted with the man-hating bile that the rest of her blog seems to follow.

This was her reaction: ‘I was in shock, I started crying, weeping at the thought of what I was about to curse the world with.’

And the lack of perspective just got worse: ‘Crying, sobbing, uncontrollable weeping, mental anguish the likes of which may only be experienced by those who have had their lives destroyed by war, I was a refugee, and my home was my refugee camp, an unfamiliar place that was just… sheltering me.’

Thankfully after mourning for three days at the thought of bringing another ‘monster’ into the world, she regained her mental health.

So she popped along to an abortion clinic and had the foetus removed.

She concludes: ‘I don’t hate men, I hate the patriarchy, what men, and even some women, turn into, I wasn’t going to let that happen with my offspring. The chances were greater that it would with a male, it was unacceptable.

‘If the curse returns, I would do the exact same thing all over again.’