First customers complained that their new iPhone 6s were bending.

Now owners of the new Apple gadget have said when they make a phone call - it is ripping out their hair.

The new controversy, branded by social media users as 'hairgate', follows allegations people are getting their beard or head hair 'snagged' when the phone is held against their face.

Claims: Chad Coleman was one of the first people to raise the issue on Twitter after complaining that his 'scruff' was being ripped

Anger: Scott Bilsky blamed the seam where the aluminium meets the glass on his hair being pulled out

Scandal: Hairgate is the latest controversy following bendgate - where users said the phone was bending when it was placed in a skinny jeans pocket or sat on

They claim that the seam between the aluminium and glass screen is catching hairs and tearing them out.

It is the latest scandal, following on from 'bendgate', and has led to a flurry of angry posts on Twitter.

Chad Coleman said: 'Anyone else getting beard hairs pulled by the iPhone 6/Plus? It catches my scruff in the seam and yanks it when I make calls.'

Paul Peavler said: 'The seam on my iPhone where the aluminium meets the glass is definitely catching my hair and pulling it out.

The new allegations have also prompted a number of hoax adverts, suggesting the phone is good for shaving a woman's legs and trimming a man's facial hair.

Others have said the phone 'has it all' and can save you money on going to the hairdressers.

Earlier this month, the electronics giant were forced to respond to complaints the phones were bending.

Response: The latest complaint led to some creating mock adverts, one was as a beard trimmer for men

Smooth: Another involved a woman apparently shaving her legs using the iPhone 6

Apple spokeswoman Trudy Muller said: 'With normal use, a bend in iPhone is extremely rare and through our first six days of sale, a total of nine customers have contacted Apple with a bent iPhone 6 Plus.'

The new phones face criticism over their bendability, dubbed 'bendgate.' Social media and online forums have been filled with comments about how the new phones can bend when placed in back pockets or while wearing skinny jeans.

Apple said its iPhones feature stainless steel and titanium inserts to reinforce high-stress locations and use the strongest glass in the smartphone industry.

The only way an iPhone may have bent is if someone put it in their back pocket and sat on the phone for a very long time, said Laban Roomes, chief executive officer of Goldgenie, which customizes and gold plates iPhones.

Problem: Paul Peavler, blaming the design of the phone for the issue, referred to the problem as 'seamgate'

Attribute: Mo Jiwa put a positive spin on the newest perceived flaw saying the iPhone 6 is now the phone that 'does it all'

Economical: Another social media user said the problem could provide assistance to personal finances, as it would save you money on going to a hairdresser