Gill Rosenberg, 31,said last week on Facebook that she was no longer updating her page because she was headed to an area without internet.

Uncertainty abounds concerning the fate of Israeli-Canadian Gill Rosenberg, who was apparently captured by ISIS.

Islamist websites – some of them known to be close, or even serving as a front for ISIS – reported Sunday that the 31-year-old was captured by their warriors during fierce battles with Kurdish fighters in unspecified areas.

According to the websites, Rosenberg was taken hostage following three suicide attacks on sites where Kurdish fighters had barricaded themselves. The websites gave no further details regarding the circumstances of the capture, nor did they provide any proof of it.

The ISIS claims do not make clear whether Rosenberg was captured in Iraq or in Syria. The main lines of battle between Kurds and ISIS are in the Syrian-Turkish border town of Kobani – but Kurdish sources approached by Israel Radio reporter Eran Cicorel expressed doubt over the ISIS report. They said Rosenberg was not in Kobani. In the assessment of these Kurdish sources, the reports of Rosenberg's capture are probably ISIS propaganda.

The Shin Bet, Israel's general security service, told The Jerusalem Post that "there are no further details at this stage."

Rosenberg wrote on her Facebook page on November 20 that she was handing over management of her account to "someone else" and would be without internet access for at least two weeks, until December 8, she wrote. It is not clear where she went at this time.

If the websites' reports are true, Rosenberg would likely be the first Western female to fall into ISIS captivity. Holding Israeli citizenship would complicate her situation even further.

Unlike the United States and the United Kingdom, which refused to negotiate with ISIS over their captured nationals, thus giving the impression of laissez faire interest, Israel invests intense concern into the fate of its citizens captured by terrorists.

This does not mean that Israel would negotiate with ISIS over Rosenberg, if she has indeed been captured – or that ISIS would agree to talk Israel, chalking her nationality up to Canadian alone.

It is worth mentioning that if Rosenberg was captured, she would be the second Israeli – of dual nationality – in this position. Steven Sotloff, a freelance American journalist who also held Israeli citizenship and filed for The Jerusalem Report from the Syrian Civil War, was captured by ISIS last year shortly after crossing the Syrian border and beheaded by the Islamist group this past August.

It is also worth noting that Rosenberg breached Israeli law by flying to Iraq, an enemy country which Israeli citizens are forbidden to enter. No matter what has happened to her since joining the Kurdish forces – whether safe or in ISIS captivity – there is no doubt that upon return to Israel, she will be arrested and prosecuted, as was the case of several Israeli Arab who joined ISIS and returned.

This is not Rosenberg's first tryst with adventurism – in 2009 she was arrested in an American con scandal and sentenced to four years in jail. This is however, her first serious choice encounter with death.

Rosenberg was born in Vancouver, Canada, and experienced a family crisis after her parents divorced. In an interview with Ma’ariv in 2009, she said that already at the age of 22 she was pursuing a promising career as a pilot of Boeing passenger planes, but decided to leave everything behind and make aliya in 2006. In Israel, she joined the IDF, serving as an instructor for Kenyan soldiers who came to Israel for home front search and rescue training.

Rosenberg said that she had ambitions to join the Mossad, but was hurt during her military training and afterward had money problems.

She met an American friend in ulpan (Hebrew language school) who led her into crime, she claimed. She joined a group of Israelis who were accused of setting up a ring to cheat elderly Americans and steal their money through a fake lottery scheme. According to the indictments filed against them, they stole hundreds of thousands of dollars, and perhaps even millions, from the unknowing pensioners.

After a number of complaints were filed, a joint Israel Police and FBI investigation was launched. The probe led to the arrest of several suspects and their extradition to the US, where they were tried. Rosenberg served four years in jail.