DC Toy Collector is the “highest paid performer” on YouTube making nearly $5 million last year unboxing Disney toys. However, little has been known about the woman-behind-the-hands of the popular YouTube channel. In fact, her face is never shown in the video, only her voice, toys and hands. However, a recent report reveals the true identity of the YouTube hit and the identity is somewhat shocking. A former Brazilian porn star is behind the wholesome Disney videos and it is noted that during the early years of “Disney Collector,” the woman was filming both Disney unboxing videos and porn in the same Florida home.

The Daily Mail reports that Brazilian Daiane DeJeus, also known as Sandy Summers in the porn industry, is the woman behind the hit Disney Collector Youtube videos. Reporters tracked down information on DeJeus that aligns with public records information regarding the widely popular DC Toy Collector YouTube channel. After tracking down DeJeus, the reporters spoke with family and friends who confirmed that Daiane was behind the million dollar videos.

DeJeus has went to unfathomable measures to ensure her identity remained secret and for good reason. The target market of the YouTube channel, which caters to Disney lovers such as children and families, may not remain viewers if they knew the owner’s secret. DeJeus was not only a Disney fanatic, but also a porn star. Going by the name Sandy Summers, Dejeus filmed numerous x-rated videos for the adult film industry in the same home that she filmed some of her early DC Toy Collector features.

Family and friends have identified DeJeus as the mystery unboxer and note that certain physical features on the woman’s hands and arms can be seen in many of the YouTube videos.

“They pointed to a tell-tale scar on her left elbow and a mole just above her elbow joint as being identical to those that can be seen on Summers in many of her lingerie photo shoots.”

Aside from the physical similarities, former neighbors say DeJeus has an unmistakable voice and say that many people on the street knew what she was up to.

‘That is Daiane. She has a very childlike voice and I would recognize it anywhere. Most people in the street eventually knew what she was up to.”

Would you have ever imagined that the popular DC Toy Collector videos were being filmed in the same house as adult films by a porn star?

[Image Credit: Youtube/ DC Toy Collector, Facebook/Sandy Summers]