Canadian national and former Israel Defense Forces (IDF) soldier Gill Rosenberg, 31, revealed to the Israeli media earlier this month that she had traveled to Iraq to help the Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) fight off ISIS.
"They are our brothers," she told Israel Radio of the Kurds. "They are good people. They love life, a lot like us, really."
Now, just three weeks later, there are rumors she may be in ISIS custody. Posts on ISIS-affiliated web forums, including Al Platform Media, claim the "Zionist soldier" was captured while fighting with the Kurds against ISIS in Kobane, a small majority-Kurdish town along Syria's northern border with Turkey.
There has indeed been intense fighting in Kobane between ISIS and the YPG over the past 24 hours. However, YPG sources have strongly denied to the Journal and other outlets that Rosenberg was captured.
So far, neither group has provided evidence either way, and ISIS has yet to release an official statement.

A spokesperson at the IDF news desk told the Journal that the IDF is not keeping track of Rosenberg, and "does not have a way of knowing" if she's been captured by ISIS. Minister of Defense Moshe Ya'alon, too, told Channel 2 that he had no information on Rosenberg's whereabouts.
Rosenberg, formerly a resident of Tel Aviv, did post to Facebook on Nov. 20 that she would be taking a short leave from social media.
"My Facebook account and friend requests are being managed by someone else until I have access again in apx 2 weeks time on or around week of 12/8," she wrote. "Please do not message as this is not me. Thank you."
A couple weeks before that, right around her 31st birthday, Rosenberg posted photos of herself on the Iraqi-Syrian border, and wrote: "In the IDF, we say אחריי - After Me. Let's show ISIS what that means."
 

 

 
A friend of hers from the IDF told the Journal that he remembered Rosenberg as "a cute lady with a strong ideology." On Twitter, her tagline is: "On a spiritual journey and a quest for authenticity."
Her attraction to foreign battlgrounds aside, the IDF-turned-YPG warrior has a pretty bizarre backstory. She reportedly served a few years in U.S. prison for a phone scam that she ran out of Israel, in which elderly Americans were "bilked out of millions of dollars, collectively," according to the FBI.
Since news of her possible capture broke, friends and supporters have filled her Facebook wall with respects, prayers and side-by-side photos of the Israeli and Kurdish flags.

ISIS members writing on the Al Platform Media forum urged leaders to use Rosenberg as a bargaining chip for a prisoner exchange with Israel.
In a phone interview with the Journal, Emmanuel Nachshon, spokesman for the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs, distanced the government from Rosenberg. "She’s her own person," he said. "As an individual, she’s free to do whatever she wants. We're not in a position to tell her what to do. ... Remember, she didn’t go there as an Israeli. She never said, 'I’m representing Israel.'"
Nachshon said the foreign ministry was aware Rosenberg was fighting for the Kurds, but has not been able to confirm the kidnapping rumors. "Our researchers are looking into it," he said. (CBC News in Canada reports that the Canadian foreign ministry is likewise "pursuing all appropriate channels" to locate Rosenberg.)
Asked if Israel was expecting ISIS to try and negotiate, Nachshon said: "I hear they are more in the business of cutting heads."
Updates to come as story develops.