Arrived in the convent of Macerata in June last year, the religious is of South American origin. But the abbess denied: "No sister gave birth to a child."

A young cloistered nun, of Bolivian origin and 35 years, gave birth to a baby at the hospital Bartolomeo Eustachio San Severino Marche (Macerata). When she arrived at the hospital, brought by the sisters worried about his health, complained a strong stomach ache. Performed the ultrasound, the truth was immediately clear and the nun, Sunday, was transferred in obstetrics, where a few hours after she gave birth to a child. Great secrecy is maintained on each other. The nun would however confided to doctors the decision to hold the child and will probably entrusted to a host community. For the moment, the baby was conducted to investigations in Neonatology Hospital of Macerata. It would be in good health, but being born after a pregnancy held without health checks, it is preferred to subject it to more accurate analyzes. No comment for now by the bishop of Camerino Francesco Brugnaro.

In San Severino cloistered convents are two, Santa Rita and Santa Caterina, but in the area there are many other religious structures. The Mother Abbess of the monastery of St. Clare of San Severino explained that the nun who gave birth is not "cloistered" in one of the convents of the area. "The story - he said - not about any Poor Clare Sister of our community, nor sisters of monasteries in the area." "Let me say this - he added - categorically to dispel any doubt and refute inaccurate information circulating at the moment and that led many journalists to contact our address." Sister Rosella takes to defend "the meaning of our life choice," and ensure that "no cloistered nun of eight monasteries of the Diocese of Camerino-San Severino gave birth to a son."

VERSION OF THE CONVENT - From the convent of the Missionary Sisters of the Love of the Heart of Christ of San Severino Marche ensure that the young woman who has given birth "is not a nun, is a girl that we are helping." But certainly we know that is from Bolivia and her age. Several sources ensure that this is just a religious, but the sisters did not want to add anything else, without explaining even if the woman has or has not taken vows. Meanwhile, it was learned that she was discharged from the hospital.