News of singer Axl Rose’s death spread quickly earlier this week causing concern among fans across the world. However the December 2014 report has now been confirmed as a complete hoax and just the latest in a string of fake celebrity death reports. Thankfully, Guns N' Roses frontman is alive and well.

UPDATE 03/12/2014 : This story seems to be false. (read more)

Axl Rose death hoax spreads on Facebook

Rumors of the singer’s alleged demise gained traction on Monday after a ‘R.I.P. Axl Rose’ Facebook page attracted nearly one million of ‘likes’. Those who read the ‘About’ page were given a believable account of the American singer’s passing:

“At about 11 a.m. ET on Monday (December 01, 2014), our beloved singer Axl Rose passed away. Axl Rose was born on February 6, 1962 in Lafayette. He will be missed but not forgotten. Please show your sympathy and condolences by commenting on and liking this page.”
Hundreds of fans immediately started writing their messages of condolence on the Facebook page, expressing their sadness that the talented 52-year-old singer, musician and songwriter was dead. And as usual, Twittersphere was frenzied over the death hoax.

Where as some trusting fans believed the post, others were immediately skeptical of the report, perhaps learning their lesson from the huge amount of fake death reports emerging about celebrities over recent months. Some pointed out that the news had not been carried on any major American network, indicating that it was a fake report, as the death of a singer of Axl Rose's stature would be major news across networks.

A recent poll conducted for the Celebrity Post shows that a large majority (89%) of respondents think those Axl Rose death rumors are not funny anymore.

Axl Rose Death Hoax Dismissed Since Singer Is ‘Alive And Well’

On Tuesday (December 02) the singer's reps officially confirmed that Axl Rose is not dead. “He joins the long list of celebrities who have been victimized by this hoax. He's still alive and well, stop believing what you see on the Internet,” they said.

Some fans have expressed anger at the fake report saying it was reckless, distressing and hurtful to fans of the much loved singer. Others say this shows his extreme popularity across the globe.