While the US Vogue offices are moving to 1 World Trade Center in New York City, Anna Wintour may not be making the transition anytime soon.

A Vogue employee told Gawker that the new offices are infested with rats. And the problem is apparently so bad that the editor-in-chief is reportedly refusing to enter the premises.

Wintour, 65, has allegedly informed her staffers that the vermin must be removed before she clicks her dainty heels into their new home.

Scroll down for video

New digs, big problem: While the US Vogue offices are moving to 1 World Trade Center in New York City, Anna Wintour may not be making the transition anytime soon

Vogue, however, is not scheduled to move into the 1 World Trader Center until the new year, giving ample time for the removal of the rodents.

The staff member told Gawker the most pressing dilemma facing them had to do with fashion: 'A serious concern (laughable but I guess it makes sense) is all the clothing that could get nibbled through.'

The timing of the infestation comes after Vogue created an online campaign advertising their move to the new offices: 'Batten the hatches, lower Manhattan, because we're coming for you.'

That's one famous mover: The Instagram feed for the Conde Nast owned publication showed rapper Will.i.am carrying boxes for them

The Instagram feed for the Conde Nast owned publication showed rapper Will.i.am carrying boxes for them.

Meanwhile, Wintour has defended her decision to put Kim Kardashian and Kanye West on the April cover of Vogue, but now it appears she is suggesting that the choice was 'tasteless'.

According to Fashionista, the magazine editor said: 'I think if we just remain deeply tasteful and just put deeply tasteful people on the cover, it would be a rather boring magazine!'

Day in the life: The publication was tongue in cheek about the moving process

She added that even from the very beginning, Vogue was never about pleasing everyone. 'The first celebrity that I put on the cover of Vogue was Madonna, and that was considered completely controversial at the time, too,' she explained.

'It's such a long time ago probably no one remembers, but she was a very controversial figure. Now she's part of the establishment.'

Ms Wintour, 65, went on to say that if Vogue didn't reflect modern culture - even the more provocative figures within it - 'nobody would talk about us. It's very important that people do talk about us.'