$1.61
That's how much WalMart reported pulled in per share in the fourth quarter – higher than the predicted $1.53. And while earnings fell short, the company might be more concerned with its poor performance on the American Customer Satisfaction Index, where it fell below Target and Family Dollar. It leads some to wonder if a company can be too big to improve.

35 miles
That's the length of two proposed long water diversion tunnels that would pull water from the California Delta further south. The conflict between North and South is nothing new for California water. This latest battle has farmers worried that siphoning water from the Delta will hurt their crop, and will ruin the water quality. But others claim fears that the South will drain the North are unfounded.

$19 billion
Snapchat's rumored value after its most recent round of fundraising. That would mean the self-destructing message service has nearly doubled in value in a year, and it would be one of the top venture-backed firms in the world, behind just Xiaomi and Uber. Quartz points out other companies publicly traded at that same value seem to make much more money than Snapchat, however. 


1,070
The median calaries in a meal from Chipotle, according to an analysis of 3,000 sample meals by The New York Times' Upshot. Their research into the chain's own nutritional info and data from GrubHub shows just how hard it is to craft a more modest meal and the surprising calorie and sodium content in some benign offerings like fresh tomato salsa and tortillas.

$11 billion
That's how much income goes undeclared and untaxed in the U.S. each year, mostly due to cash tips, the Atlantic reported. The magazine's analysis of several different sets of data shows tipping varies wildly state-to-state – generally areas with more resorts see higher tips, as do wait staff and bartenders, compared to chefs and cooks.

$300,000
Speaking of tipping your waiter, $300,000 is how much Vice Media CEO Shane Smith reportedly dropped on a single dinner at the Bellagio in Las Vegas. During an MGM Resorts International earnings call, MGM CEO James Murren accidentally let slip the details of said dinner. As reported by Quartz, it didn't take long for reporters to connect the dots on who he was talking about. With the guest list only estimated at 12 to 30 people, some speculate that there must have been some pretty expensive alcohol served with the steak.