THE spy agencies MI5 and MI6 have identified the British fighter suspected of murdering the US journalist James Foley, British government sources confirmed yesterday.

The masked man with a London accent, who is said to be known as Jihadi John, was seen in the shocking video of Foley’s death released by the Islamic State extremist army last week.

While sources gave no details of the man they have identified, a key suspect is Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, 23, who left his family’s £1 million ($1.78m) home in Maida Vale, west London, last year. He recently tweeted a picture of himself holding up a severed head.

The intelligence agencies and police estimate up to 20 British extremists a month are now travelling to Syria and Iraq to fight with Islamic State. The rate has risen since Islamic State declared a “caliphate” eight weeks ago. US ­officials said America was considering carrying out drone strikes on Islamic State leaders in Syria as it steps up its activities in the country, and could also provide more help for moderate rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad.

Pentagon sources claimed President Barack Obama agonised for weeks over whether to authorise a mission to rescue Foley and other foreign hostages. Delta Force commandos finally launched the mission on July 4 but the hostages had been moved.

“They were ready to go in June to grab the guy and they weren’t permitted,” said Anthony Shaffer, a former lieutenant colonel who worked on covert operations.

Writing in The Sunday Times yesterday, British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond accused Foley’s killer of “an utter betrayal” of everything the British people stand for. “It is horrifying to think that the perpetrator of this ­heinous act could have been brought up in Britain,” he wrote.

Mr Hammond said Foley’s death was “a reminder to us all that Islamic extremism in Iraq and Syria is not only causing huge suffering in those countries but is also a barbaric ideology threatening us at home”.

Unless Islamic State is stopped, “sooner or later they will seek to strike us on British soil”, he wrote.

The comments are the most ­explicit warning yet from a British cabinet minister about the risk of an attack against the country.

The British government, he wrote, was “investing significant resources to tackle this problem for the long term” and to disrupt Islamic State’s ability “to organise, raise funds and attack us here in Britain”.

While “we must support the overwhelming majority of British Muslims who are moderate, law-abiding people with values and morals we all share ... we should be in no doubt that we have a vital ­national interest in tackling the threat from Islamic State,” he said.

Government sources insisted that while the option of British air strikes on the jihadists remained on the table, they “are not being actively considered or proposed at this stage”.

Military planners are, however, drawing up plans to deploy scores of British troops to help train a “substantial” number of Iraqi troops and Kurdish Peshmerga fighters.

Training will focus on the use of heavy weaponry such as artillery, mortars and Milan antitank weapons.

Sources said Britain was exploring the possibility of establishing training camps in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq and in Baghdad, although the high security risk meant the training could take place in Jordan or Britain instead.

Additional reporting: MARIE WOOLF

The Sunday Times