There it was in the middle of a field, baking in the sun: a cache of grenades, rockets and guns. The trove was attached to a big black parachute and, as the camera focused in on the shipment, it seemed for a moment abandoned. Then you see the masked man, who sermonized for the occasion. An American airdrop of arms, he said, which had been intended for Kurdish fighters defending the city of Kobane, had fallen into the hands of the Islamic State.

“These are some of the American aid [items] that were dropped for the atheists in the” Kurdistan Workers’ Party,” the militant said in a video uploaded to jihadist social media accounts and initially reported by SITE Intelligence Group. “Ammunition, military equipment, additional equipment — these are some of the military weapons. The American forces dropped [them] … Praise be to Allah. Spoils for the mujahideen.”

News of the accidental airdrop, which the Associated Press corroborated and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights confirmed, brought fresh criticism to a military tactic — the air drop — officials said has become substantially more accurate in the past few decades, but is still evidently prone to screw-ups. And those screw-ups have popped up several times so far in the battle against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, underscoring the dangers of trusting the winds to carry valuable resources to their targets.

In early August, the U.S. military dropped more than 7,000 gallons of water and 36,000 packaged meals onto a barren mountain near Sinjar, the hiding spot for nearly 40,000 Yazidis who fled the Islamic State under threat of genocide. Many packages reached their intended targets — the Department of Defense estimated 80 percent — but not all of them did. “Iraqi officials said that much of the U.S. aid had been ‘useless’ because it was dropped from 15,000 feet without parachutes and exploded on impact,” wrote journalist Jonathan Krohn, who claimed to be the first Western journalist on the scene. The Washington Post’s Liz Sly agreed, saying the drops “apparently went awry.”

Then NBC News reported late last month Iraqi military pilots accidentally dropped food, water and weapons to Islamic State fighters instead of to their own soldiers, who were battling to retain control of Anbar province. “Some pilots, instead of dropping these supplies over the area of the Iraqi army, threw it over an area that is controlled by ISIS fighters,” Hakim al-Zamili said, using another name for the Islamic State. “Those soldiers were in deadly need of these supplies, but because of the wrong plans of the commanders in the Iraqi army and lack of experience of the pilots, we in a way or another helped ISIS fighters to kill our soldiers.”

Another general sheepishly added: “Yes, that’s what had happened.”

The embarrassing anecdotes feed into the complicated history of the airdrop, which still carries risks despite being honed over decades with technological advancements such as GPS-guided parachutes. “There’s no way you can predict who may end up with those weapons, and who is going to use them, or how they are going to use them,” Greg Myre of the Middle East Institute told the Daily Sabah. “That is one of the risks you have to take.”

It was a risk Bill Clinton was willing to take in 1993. That was the year he ordered an airdrop of tens of thousands of humanitarian packages over eastern Bosnia, despite the “military consistently arguing against involving U.S. troops in airdrops in hostile zones, given the fact that the accuracy of the drops is questionable,” the Associated Press then reported. The brass turned out to be right.

One major problem laid bare during that mission, military scientists later said, was what they called “wind drift.” “The problem was identified in the late ’90s,” John McGinley, a scientist who researched the topic, told The Washington Post’s Holly Watt in 2008. “The terrain in Bosnia meant that instead of landing in one valley, the cargo could drift into another valley that was held by the enemy. Wind drift was causing all the problems.”

So research teams got to work, ultimately unveiling wind-forecast software that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said increased the drop’s accuracy by 70 percent. “Inaccurate wind forecasts are the main culprit in missed targets for dropping supplies and other items from high altitudes,” the report said.

It almost immediately went into use in the war in Afghanistan, where far-flung military outposts were separated by stretches of roads pockmarked with insurgents and explosives. There had to be another way to get soldiers the equipment they needed, military officials thought, so they launched a massive increase in airdrops. “We’ve gotten a lot more accurate over the years,” Air Force Gen. Arthur Lichte told USA Today.

That may true. But following this week’s alleged delivery to the Islamic State, there’s clearly still room for work.