A photo provided by the Nicaraguan Army shows an impact crater made by a small meteorite in a wooded area near Managua's international airport. Photo: AP

Managua: A mysterious explosion that rocked Nicaragua's crowded capital Managua, creating a large crater, appears to have been caused by a small meteorite.

Amazingly, in a sprawling city of 1.2 million people, the impact near the international airport did not cause any known injuries, but it did leave a crater measuring 12 metres across and was felt throughout the capital late on Saturday night, local time.

Nicaraguan authorities believe it was a piece of the small asteroid dubbed "2014 RC", which passed very close to Earth on Sunday and was estimated by astronomers to be about 20 metres wide, or the size of a house.

"We are convinced that this was a meteorite. We have seen the crater from the impact," said Wilfredo Strauss of the Seismic Institute.

The meteorite appeared to have hurtled into a wooded area near the airport around midnight and the hit was so large that it registered on the instruments Dr Strauss's organisation uses to measure earthquakes.

"You can see two waves: first, a small seismic wave when the meteorite hit earth, and then another stronger one, which is the impact of the sound," he said.

Government officials and experts visited the impact site on Sunday.

One of them, William Martinez, said it was not yet clear if the meteorite burned up completely or if it had been blasted into the soil.

"You can see mirror-like spots on the sides of the crater from where the meteorite power-scraped the walls," Dr Martinez said.

People who live near the crater told local media they heard a blast they took for an explosion, and that liquid, sand and dust were blown through the air, which smelled like something had burned.

Nicaragua has more than 20 volcanoes and is regularly shaken by earthquakes, so many locals initially thought a quake caused the loud bang.

There were no reported injuries because the impact was in a wooded spot, and flights at the airport were not affected.

NASA said last week that the asteroid 2014 RC, at the time of closest approach, would be about one-tenth the distance from the centre of Earth to the moon, or about 40,000 kilometres.

It had been projected to be roughly over New Zealand at the time of its closest approach, which astronomers had calculated would be on Sunday about 1818 GMT (4.18am on Monday AEST).

Agence France Presse, Reuters