It would have been pretty embarrassing for Batman, the ultimate crime fighter.

But thankfully rumors that Caped Crusader's wheels had been stolen from beneath his nose proved to be untrue.

The famous Batmobile was spotted cruising Detroit as filming continues of Batman vs Superman: Dawn Of Justice.

Scroll down for video

Spotted: The Batmobile was seen cruising the set of Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice last week

Reports began to surface online that the iconic vehicle had gone missing, presumed pinched from the Warner Brother's set two weeks ago.

But according to the Detroit Free Press, there had been no such crime.

Detroit police spokesman Sgt. Michael Woody said the force had spoken with the producers of the movie to confirm all was well.

'The Batmobile is safe in the Batcave where it belongs,' Sgt Woody told the newspaper.

Mean machine: Batman and Robin's flashy transportation has evolved considerably over the years

No crime here: Detroit police spokesman Sgt. Michael Woody said: 'The Batmobile is safe in the Batcave where it belongs'

Earlier this month, director Jack Snyder released a shot of how the Batmobile will look in the movie.

He tweeted the picture in response to the publication of fake images claiming to be the comic book hero's transportation.

'Here's a real picture of the Batmobile,' he wrote alongside the publicity shot.

Transformation: This is how the car will look once it has made it on to the big screen

The film - starring Ben Afleck as Batman and Henry Cavill as Superman - is due for release in March 2016.

It will be the first time the two giants of the superhero world will meet on te big screen.

The blockbuster also stars Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman, Amy Adams as Lois Lane, Jason Momoa as Aquaman, Jesse Eisenberg as Lex Luther, and Jeremy Irons as Alfred.

The ultimate clash: Fans of the comic book heroes will be clamoring to see how the new movie out in March 2016 despite what this promo poster says

Aging: Ben Affleck is cast as an older Bruce Wayne who is in his fifties

Young pretender: British born actor Henry Cavill takes on the Superman role