According to The Washington Post, Emwazi grew up in a well-to-do family in west London. He is believed to have traveled to Syria around 2012 and to have later joined the militant group.

He is said to have graduated from college with a degree in computer programming at the University of Westminster.

The militant has appeared in a series of videos in which hostages, including British aid worker Alan Henning, were brutally murdered.

"I have no doubt that Mohammed is Jihadi John," said one of his close friends who identified him in an interview with The Washington Post. "He was like a brother to me... I am sure it is him."

Asim Qureshi, research director at the rights group, CAGE, said after watching one of the videos: "There was an extremely strong resemblance. This is making me feel fairly certain that this is the same person."

'Counter-terrorism'
Scotland Yard has refused to confirm the reports.

Commander Richard Walton, head of the Met's Counter Terrorism Command, said: "We have previously asked media outlets not to speculate about the details of our investigation on the basis that life is at risk.

"We are not going to confirm the identity of anyone at this stage or give an update on the progress of this live counter-terrorism investigation."

From Britain to Syria via Kuwait, Tanzania and the Netherlands
Emwazi is understood to have arrived in Britain as a young boy, aged six, after being born in Kuwait. Growing up in west London, he was described as a "polite, mild-mannered" man with a penchant for wearing stylish clothes.

It was during a trip to Tanzania in August 2009 that Emwazi's life direction is thought to have started to change. Once landing in Dar es Salaam on the supposed Safari trip with two friends, he alleged he was detained by gun-wielding Tanzanian police and held overnight.

The trio were eventually refused entry to Tanzania and returned to the Netherlands, where they said they were questioned by MI5 agents who accused them of having links to Islamic extremists.

An article in The Independent in May 2010 outlines the allegations. Upon returning to the UK, Emwazi was reportedly on the radar of MI5, who warned him that he was on a terror watch list which prevented him travelling to any Muslim country.

He is later understood to have filed a complaint with the Independent Police Complaints Commission over his treatment.

Emwazi later moved to Kuwait, where he got a job at a computer company. But on a visit to London in June 2010, it is understood he was detained once again by counter-terrorism officials and prevented from flying back.

Two years later he was apparently in Syria fighting alongside IS.

His first public appearance was last August in a video of the murder of American journalist James Foley in August, dressed in black with only his eyes visible. He later reappeared in videos of the beheadings of US journalist Steven Sotloff, British aid worker David Haines, American aid worker Peter Kassig and British charity worker Alan Henning.

British and US security services have previously inferred that they knew his identity, but Thursday morning's developments and naming appear to have taken authorities by surprise.

A spokesman for the Foreign Office said: "There is an ongoing police investigation into the murder of hostages by so-called ISIL in Syria. We are not going to give a running commentary on any element of a live operational security investigation."