OTTAWA – The gunman who charged into Parliament after shooting a Canadian Forces reservist was struck by nearly a dozen bullets from security officers and finally was brought down by Sergeant-at-Arms Kevin Vickers.

Several sources, who have requested anonymity, have confirmed that Michael Zehaf-Bibeau was fatally wounded by Mr. Vickers near the door of the Parliamentary library.

Zehaf-Bibeau burst into the Parliament buildings after fleeing the National War Memorial, where he had shot Cpl. Nathan Cirillo and hijacked a ministerial car. He ran in to Parliament’s Centre Block through the main entrance with RCMP officers in hot pursuit.

A security service source says the gunman was intercepted by a House of Commons security guard who unsuccessfully tried to wrestle his gun away from him.


The guard yelled “Gun!” to warn his colleagues and tried to yank the barrel of the weapon down but Zehaf-Bibeau managed to fire, wounding the man.


The gunman then bolted several metres down the Hall of Honour with police and guards chasing him. More shots were fired.

Zehaf-Bibeau, his body riddled with bullets, huddled behind a column by the Parliamentary library. It was there that Mr. Vickers fired the fatal shots.

Mr. Vickers then walked to a nearby room where the Conservative caucus was meeting, and told MPs the shooter was dead. Prime Minister Stephen Harper was rushed to safety

Mr. Harper had been speaking to his caucus when the gunfight erupted.

“I had images of people hiding behind pillars and shooting,” said Manitoba Conservative MP Steven Fletcher. “There were so many shots.”


The police and military officers in the Conservative caucus sprang into action, including Manitoba cabinet minister Shelly Glover. They used chairs and tables to barricade doors that wouldn’t lock, while others began fashioning makeshift spears from flagpoles.

Ms. Glover said that for the former police officers in the room, training and experience kicked in. “Those boots I had on came off pretty quickly,” she said.

Mr. Fletcher, a quadriplegic, told his aide that if it came to it, she should leave him behind.

“I told my caregiver if the opportunity comes to get out, she has to take it,” said Mr. Fletcher.

The Canadian Press, with files from the Winnipeg Free Press