Michael Zehaf-Bibeau has been identified as the suspect in the shooting at Parliament Hill in Ottawa, Canada on Wednesday.

Zehaf-Bibeau shot a soldier at the national War Memorial before entering the Centre Block and firing off more shots.

Epoch Times reporter Matthew Little says that the shooter got as far as the library before Sergeant-At-Arms shot him dead.

The soldier was rushed to a hospital but later died. There are at least three other shooting victims who survived.

U.S. officials revealed Zehaf-Bibeau’s identity to CBS News.

The officials say Zehaf-Bibeau is a Canadian born in 1982.

There is at least one other suspect at large, Little reported.

Ottawa police spokesman Chuck Benoit told CBS said two or three gunmen may have been involved.

No motive has been identified for the attacks, although some are linking them to an incident on Monday.

Story developing …

MORE:

At Least 2 Dead After Parliament Hill Shooting (+Photos, Video)

Kevin Vickers, Sergeant-At-Arms, Shoots a Shooting Suspect in Ottawa; Called a ‘Hero’ (+Pictures)

See an Associated Press update below.

2 dead in shooting attack at Canada’s Parliament

OTTAWA, Ontario—A Canadian soldier standing guard at a war memorial in the country’s capital was shot to death Wednesday, and heavy gunfire then erupted inside Parliament. One gunman was killed, and police said they were hunting for as many as two others.

The bloodshed immediately raised the specter of a coordinated terrorist attack, with Canada already on alert because of a deadly hit-and-run earlier in the week against two Canadian soldiers by a man who police say was fired up with radical Muslim fervor.

Witnesses said the soldier was gunned down at point-blank range by a man carrying a rifle and dressed all in black, with a scarf over his face. They said the gunman then ran off and entered Parliament, a few hundred yards away, where dozens of shots soon rang out.

People fled the complex by scrambling down scaffolding erected for renovations, while others took cover inside as police with rifles and body armor took up positions outside and cordoned off the normally bustling streets around Parliament.

Police gave no details on how the gunman died. But on Twitter, Member of Parliament Craig Scott credited Parliament sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers with shooting the attacker just outside the MPs’ caucus rooms.

Ottawa police spokesman Chuck Benoit said two or three gunmen were believed to be involved in the attacks.

Gilles Michaud, assistant commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, called it a “dynamic, unfolding situation.”

Ottawa Hospital said it received two patients, both listed in stable condition, in addition to the soldier.

“Today is a sad and tragic day for our city and our country,” Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson said. He said it was a tragedy with “origins as yet not fully known, causes not yet fully understood.”

In Washington, President Barack Obama condemned the shootings as “outrageous,” and in a telephone call with the prime minister, offered U.S. help and reassurance of the American people’s solidarity with Canada.

The U.S. Embassy in Ottawa was locked down as a precaution, and security was tightened at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery just outside Washington.

Tony Zobl said he witnessed the soldier being gunned down from his fourth-floor window directly above the National War Memorial, a 70-foot, arched granite cenotaph, or tomb, with bronze sculptures commemorating World War I.

“I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man dressed all in black with a kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a rifle and shooting an honor guard in front of the cenotaph point-blank, twice,” Zobl told the Canadian Press news agency.

“The honor guard dropped to the ground, and the shooter kind of raised his arms in triumph holding the rifle.”

Zobl said the gunman then ran up the street toward Parliament Hill.

Cabinet minister Tony Clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were heard inside Parliament, where Conservative and Liberal MPs were holding their weekly caucus meetings.

“I’m safe locked in a office awaiting security,” Kyle Seeback, another member of Parliament, tweeted.

The top spokesman for Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Harper was safe and had left Parliament Hill.