Batman as Steve Jobs? Sure. How about that guy from Superbad as Woz, too?
Seth Rogen has reportedly signed on to star as Steve Wozniak in the upcoming Steve Jobs film from Sony. You know, the as-yet-untitled biopic written by Aaron Sorkin, creator of "The Newsroom" and "The West Wing."
The comic actor would join Christian Bale, who is tipped to play Jobs, according to Variety.
Sony's flick would be the fourth such feature film that's either in the works or has already been made about Jobs, sharing the marquee with 2013's "Jobs" (the one with Ashton Kutcher), "iSteve" from the same year (the one made by Funny or Die), and 1999's "Pirates of Silicon Valley" (the one where the iPhone hadn't been invented yet). One might argue that the world is a bit Jobs'd out, but we suppose it depends on the strength of Sorkin's script and Danny Boyle's directing.
On the plus side, the film is based on Walter Isaacson's biography of the late Apple CEO—titled simply, "Steve Jobs"—which was Amazon's best-selling book for 2011.
If you ask Sorkin, though, the movie isn't entirely biographical per se.
"It's not a biopic; it's not the story of Steve Jobs—it's something much different than that. He's a fascinating guy—part hero, part antihero," Sorkin said earlier this year, as reported by Mashable.
"I don't want to make any news or make anyone feel like I approached the movie in a different way. I'm going to make the movie speak for itself. But he's a fascinating guy surrounded by fascinating people, and he had very interesting relationships with the people in his life," Sorkin said in a separate interview.
Rogen isn't officially on board just yet, per The Hollywood Reporter, and it's unknown whether an official offer has been made or even if any kind of negotiations have taken place. Bale is supposed to be in the midst of negotiations to appear as Jobs.
Leonardo DiCaprio was first tapped for the role of Jobs, but dropped out earlier this month to take a role in "The Revenant." After that, DiCaprio plans to take a long break from acting, according to The Hollywood Reporter.