The Pentagon confirmed today that the U.S. killed Ahmed Abdi Godane, the leader of the al-Shabaab insurgent group in Somalia, in an airstrike this week.

U.S. special operations forces targeted Godane in southern Somalia in a Sept. 1 attack using manned aircraft and drones to destroy an encampment and a vehicle. It took several days to confirm initial reports that he died in the attack.

“The United States works in coordination with its friends, allies and partners to counter the regional and global threats posed by violent extremist organizations,” Rear Admiral John Kirby, the Pentagon’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement confirming the mission’s success.

Al-Shabaab, an offshoot of al-Qaeda, was declared a terrorist organization by the U.S. State Department in 2008. Godane claimed responsibility for the attack last year on the Westgate shopping mall in Kenya’s capital of Nairobi, in which at least 67 people died. The U.S. has offered a $7 million reward for information on his whereabouts.

“Godane’s removal is a major symbolic and operational loss to the largest al-Qaeda affiliate in Africa and reflects years of painstaking work by our intelligence, military and law enforcement professionals,” White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest said in a statement.
Godane was among a number of “high-ranking” al-Shabaab officials who were meeting at Dhaytubako, about 300 kilometers (186 miles) southwest of the capital, Mogadishu, when the attack occurred, Lower Shabelle Governor Abdulkadir Mohamed Nur said in a phone interview Sept. 2.

Suicide Bombings

In recent months, al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing in Djibouti that killed a Turkish national and wounded several Western soldiers as well a car bomb at the Mogadishu airport that targeted and killed members of a United Nations convoy, according to the statement.

Al-Shabaab was responsible for twin suicide bombings in Kampala, Uganda, on July 11, 2010, that killed more than 70 people, including one American. The group has also been responsible for the assassination of Somali peace activists, international aid workers, numerous civil society figures, and journalists.

To contact the reporter on this story: Terry Atlas in Washington at tatlas@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: John Walcott at jwalcott9@bloomberg.net Larry Liebert, Michael Shepard