Although the majority of Austrian resorts are suffering from a lack of snow there is one where it is business as usual – thanks to the fact that they stored snow from last year.

Resort managers in Saalbach-Hinterglemm in the state of Salzburg say their planned opening is going head as expected thanks to the fact that they saved up tons of snow from last year which they have now put back on the slopes.

Austria is one of the world's most popular skiing destinations and any delay in the usual season start at the beginning of December costs the industry millions.

But while most resorts in the Austrian Alps are currently struggling with an almost total lack of snow, including Flachau in Salzburg and Rosskopf mountain in Tyrol, at a time when the snow is usually plentiful, Saalbach-Hinterglemm has no such problems.

A recent Austrian climate report found the country’s temperatures had risen twice as fast as the global average since 1880, with the number of sunshine hours in the Alps increasing by 20 percent.

And although many resorts have shifted their focus to adaptation solutions, acknowledging that climate change will not be stopped or turned around any time soon, it is the ski resort at Saalbach-Hinterglemm that really planned ahead with the most success.

For the seventh year running the Snow Mobile event will be taking place in Saalbach-Hinterglemm as planned thanks to the snow that was carefully stored since March.

The resort management collected around 13,000-square-metres of snow from the mountains earlier in the year and then stored it by covering it with an artificial fleece and wood chips to keep it cool and prevent it from melting.

A spokesman for the resort said: "We made sure the covering was airtight, and it paid off. We estimate we have lost about 15 percent of the snow that we put away which is pretty good going given that it's been such a warm year."

The snow is currently being spread and flattened to allow the event at the weekend to go ahead as planned. Around 22,000 people are expected to turn up to watch.