News that the ‘Home Alone’ star has allegedly died started spreading on Facebook and Twitter Nov. 6, leaving fans emotionally distraught. Could the report be true or is Macaulay the latest victim of another internet death hoax?
Macaulay Culkin was allegedly found dead in his New York City apartment, according to a shocking new report spreading online. Could the Home Alone star really have died? Fans are completely stunned.


Macaulay Culkin Dead — ‘Home Alone’ Actor Dies In NYC Apartment?
Don’t worry, Home Aloners. This new report is a total hoax!


Selena Gomez Cries For Justin Bieber - But Should She?
Hollywood Life


'Sleepy Hollow' Stars Tease Steamy Love Triangle
Hollywood Life

The fake story comes from a site called MSNBC.website.com, which some social media users believed was the real MSNBC, but it’s definitely not. The report reads:

Sources are reporting that Macaulay Culkin, best known for his role as Kevin McCallister in Home Alone and sequel Home Alone 2: Lost in New York, has been found dead at the age of 34.

Multiple unconfirmed reports say Culkin was found dead Friday afternoon in his Manhattan apartment after police responded to a wellness check requested by a family member.

At least one occupant of the Manhattan apartment confirmed the apartment belongs to Culkin but police have not confirmed the man’s identity at this time.

“The apartment was exceptionally clean and we found no signs of abuse or foul-play so we are depending on the coroner to make a final ruling of what happened here today,” said Det. James Patterson, of the Manhattan Police Department.

Unfortunately, this isn’t the first time Macaulay was reported dead.

Macaulay Culkin Dies — Fans React On Twitter
The actor, who also starred in Richie Rich, was also reported dead in April 2014. A memorial page was even created to honor the “dead” celebrity.

This time around, fans have taken to Twitter to discuss the scary situation.


HollywoodLife.com has reached out to Macaulay’s rep for comment.

Miley Cyrus Dead? — Fans Freak Out Over Shocking Overdose Claim
What do YOU think, HollywoodLifers? Are you tired of death hoaxes?