“A Message To America,” a video uploaded Tuesday to YouTube, begins with a clip of President Obama announcing his recent authorization of targeted airstrikes and a humanitarian operation in Iraq. Then, around the two minute mark, a man believed to be James Wright Foley, 40, delivers a statement:

“I call on my friends, family and loved ones to rise up against my real killers: the U.S. government,” he says, before specifically addressing his brother John, a member of the U.S. Air Force. (A full transcript of his last words was posted online by the blogger Brown Moses and can be found here.)

About two minutes and 20 seconds later, the man is apparently beheaded. His executioner, whose face is covered, has what sounds like a British accent and threatens that “any attempt by you, Obama, to deny the Muslims their rights of living in safety under the Islamic caliphate will result in the bloodshed of your people.”

Two people who know Foley said the man in the video appears to be him, and that the voice sounds like his. A Facebook page that is part of the Foley family’s appeal to find and bring Foley home posted the following statement: “We know that many of you are looking for confirmation or answers. Please be patient until we all have more information, and keep the Foleys in your thoughts and prayers.”

Foley, a freelance photojournalist for the AFP and GlobalPost, and his translator were kidnapped in Binesh, Syria, in November 2012. According to the FBI, his translator was later released.

The propaganda video ends with a shot of another kneeling man in orange believed to be missing journalist Steven Sotloff. “The life of this American citizen, Obama, depends on your next decision,” the executioner says.

A version of the clip viewed by BuzzFeed was removed from YouTube after about 20 minutes, though others have been uploaded since.

“YouTube has clear policies that prohibit content like gratuitous violence, hate speech and incitement to commit violent acts, and we remove videos violating these policies when flagged by our users,” a spokesperson for YouTube said. “We also terminate any account registered by a member of a designated Foreign Terrorist Organization and used in an official capacity to further its interests.”

“We have seen a video that purports to be the murder of U.S. citizen James Foley by ISIL,” said NSC spokesperson Caitlin Hayden. “The intelligence community is working as quickly as possible to determine its authenticity. If genuine, we are appalled by the brutal murder of an innocent American journalist and we express our deepest condolences to his family and friends. We will provide more information when it is available.”

FBI

FBI

James Wright Foley