Federal officials have called a sitting U.S. Representative a liar after he went on national television claiming ISIS militants were crossing into the country through the Mexican border.

The Department of Homeland Security told AOL News that Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) was telling a tale Tuesday afternoon when he told Fox News that insurgents were traversing the Texas border.

"The suggestion that individuals who have ties to ISIL have been apprehended at the Southwest border is categorically false, and not supported by any credible intelligence or the facts on the ground," spokesperson Marsha Catron told AOL.

"DHS continues to have no credible intelligence to suggest terrorist organizations are actively plotting to cross the southwest border."

Catron's comments came one day after Hunter ranted to host Greta van Susteren about America's pourous southern border.

"ISIS is coming across the southern border," Hunter insisted. "They aren't flying B-1 Bombers bombing American cities, but they are going to be bombing American cities coming across from Mexico.

"At least 10 ISIS fighters have been caught coming across the Mexican border in Texas," Hunter added. "There's nobody taking about it."

When asked where he got the information, Hunter shot back that he "asked the Border Patrol."

An AOL News attempt to reach Texas Border Patrol officials was not successful. The inquiry was directed to the DHS.

"They caught them at the border," Hunter continued. "Therefore, we know ISIS is coming across the border.

"If they catch five or 10 of them you know there are going to be dozens more that did not get caught by the Border Patrol."

Hunter's constituency mainly covers the San Diego area. He did not say if terrorists were also running through his neck of the woods.

When offered the opportunity to respond to DHS comments, a spokesperson for Rep Hunter provided AOL News a link to a blog claiming sources told it four ISIS terrorists have recently been arrested at the border.

There was no response to a follow up request for comment.