Sgt-at-arms Kevin Vickers is being praised by politicians for 'selflessly keeping them safe' following today's terrifying shooting spree

Video loading

This is the man being hailed a hero for reportedly shooting a gunman who went on the rampage inside the Canadian Parliament.

Sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers is being praised by politicians for 'selflessly keeping them safe' following today's terrifying shooting spree, with unconfirmed reports he was the one who took the suspect down.

This is Canadian Sergeant-at-Arms Kevin Vickers who reportedly shot & killed one assailant. Ex-Mountie. Still got it. pic.twitter.com/jZr0jLvgEx— Allie Renison (@AllieRenison) October 22, 2014

Kevin Vickers, Sergeant-At-Arms, reportedly shot gunman outside MP meeting room RT @markcritch: A very Canadian hero. pic.twitter.com/WcgLEA47ZS— Tim Mak (@timkmak) October 22, 2014

A gunman shot a Canadian soldier at the National War Memorial in the city of Ottawa before entering the nearby Parliament Hill building where further shots were fired.

A third shooting took place at a shopping mall in the city as police warned people in the area to stay away from windows and rooftops.

I am safe & profoundly grateful to Sgt at Arms Kevin Vickers & our security forces for selfless act of keeping us safe— Julian Fantino (@JulianFantino) October 22, 2014

Canada's Minister of Veterans Affairs Julian Fantino is one of the many thanking Sgt Vickers's efforts.

Writing on Twitter, he said: "I am safe and profoundly grateful to Sgt at Arms Kevin Vickers and our security forces for selfless act of keeping us safe.

"I want to commend the courage and bravery of the first responders on the ground in Ottawa right now."

To all in Ottawa, stay safe & strong. Thank God for Sgt at Arms Kevin Vickers & our Cdn security forces. True heroes #cndpoli— Peter MacKay (@MinPeterMacKay) October 22, 2014

Kevin Vickers, Sergeant At Arms is a Canadian Hero.— I'm Mike M (@iMike_M) October 22, 2014

Canada's Minister of Justice Peter MacKay added his support for Sgt Vickers and the others who came to their aid.

He wrote: "To all in Ottawa, stay safe and strong. Thank god for Sgt at Arms Kevin Vickers and our Canadian security forces. True heroes."

The Sergeant-at-Arms is responsible for the safety and security of the Parliament buildings and everyone in them, though it also includes a ceremonial element of carrying the ceremonial gold mace into the House of Commons before every sitting.

Canadian media are reporting that Mr Vickers is a former Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer, better known as a Mountie. He is understood to have held the position since 2006.

Terrifying Incident: Armed officers were called out following a shooting in Ottawa today

Video filmed from inside the parliament building shows officers rushing down a large marble hallway with handguns held in front of them, before the sound of gunfire and shouting rings out.

In footage from the Globe and Mail, armed police can be seen running down a corridor as they search for the suspect gunman before a volley of shots are heard.

The footage becomes shaky as the cameraman, believed to be a local reporter, rushes for cover behind a pillar.

Shooting Footage: Video shows the moment at least 30 shots were fired inside the Canadian Parliament building

A spokesman for Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he was safe and had left the area.

Cabinet minister Tony Clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were fired during a meeting with Mr Harper and other MPs.

"I feared this day would come, and my prayers are with the fallen soldier," he added.

Follow live updates into the ongoing incident, and reaction to it, here.

VIEW GALLERY