A second patient with Ebola symptoms walked into a Texas clinic today and told medics he had been in contact with first victim Thomas Duncan.

The CareNow clinic in Frisco, Texas was placed in lock-down after the person appeared on Wednesday and was exhibiting signs of the deadly virus.

The patient answered yes in a screening questionnaire to a question about travel to West Africa and is said to have contact with Duncan, referred to as ‘patient zero’.

Mr Duncan, 42, died on Wednesday morning at Texas Presbyterian Hospital after developing symptoms of the disease almost two weeks ago.

Scroll down for video

An ambulance, driven by a firefighter-paramedic wearing a hazmat suit, carries an unidentified patient with Ebola symptoms to a hospital in Frisco, Texas on Wednesday afternoon after the person turned up at an urgent care clinic

The person exhibiting Ebola symptoms today claimed to have had contact with Ebola patient Thomas Duncan, who died from the virus on Wednesday morning

A patient attended CareNow clinic in Frisco, Texas today and was rushed to a nearby hospital after presenting with Ebola symptoms

It is not yet clear how the patient came in alleged contact with Mr Duncan or if he is among the 48 people being monitored for the deadly virus by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

The Frisco patient was rushed to a nearby hospital by ambulance after turning up at the urgent care clinic on Main Street, CBS confirmed.

Medics at the clinic called 911 at around 12.30pm to request an ambulance for the patient.

The clinic was keeping everyone at the center until they are checked out by the CDC - it is unknown how many people were exposed to the patient.

The CDC will host a press conference at 4pm (ET) to update the public and the media, the White House announced just minutes after the existence of a second Ebola patient was reported.

Mr Duncan, a 42-year-old Liberian national, exposed nearly 50 people to the disease in America before he was put in isolation at Texas Presbyterian.

A second person is exhibiting Ebola symptoms in Texas today and claimed to have had contact with Thomas Duncan who died from Ebola today

His fiancee Louise Troh is currently in quarantine with her 13-year-old son and two nephews and under constant monitoring by health officials over fears that they, too, could develop symptoms during a 21-day incubation period.

Ten people, including seven healthcare workers and three family members, are considered at high risk for Ebola after they were exposed to Duncan after he became contagious.

Another 38 more are being monitors by the CDC for possible risk of the disease.

Duncan's fiancee Louise Troh, who is perhaps highest at risk of catching the disease after she cared for him at her Dallas apartment while he sweated and vomited through the early staged of the disease, says she does not blame him for possibly exposing her.

The White House said on Wednesday that extra screening for fever will be carried out for arriving aircraft passengers from West Africa, where the virus has killed nearly 4,000 people in three countries.

The screening will start at New York's John F. Kennedy airport from the weekend, and later at Newark Liberty, Washington Dulles, Chicago O'Hare and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta.

Authorities will use a non-invasive device to take the temperature of passengers and have them fill out a questionnaire created by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) asking for detailed information about their activities