The woman says her "bad experiences with men" led her to have the sex selective abortion

A "feminist" blogger has provoked outrage after claiming she aborted her baby because it was a boy.

The author, known only as Lena, said in her blog that she was ready to have a child but because of her "bad experiences with men" she had an abortion when she discovered the baby's sex, the Metro has reported.

In the blog she says she found out she was pregnant in 2012 and describes the father as ‘the donator’.

She also claims to be a feminist, fighting women’s rights "to the point of eschewing a career".

The woman wrote when she found out she was having a boy, she was "in shock, I started crying, weeping at the thought of what I was about to curse the world with".

She continued: "A few days later, I went in for the procedure, as it was fairly later in my pregnancy, I was aware there were certain risks, but it went off without a hitch...I felt strong. I had done something positive, something that would actually make a difference, something good, even though as I would find out, many others wouldn’t see it that way."

The blogger says she went on to give birth to a "beautiful" baby girl.

She says: "I have endured a lot regarding my first pregnancy, but I don’t care. Sometimes, even allies will turn on you, but I don’t care.

"I stand by my decision to abort my baby because it was a male.

"I don’t hate men, I hate the patriarchy, what men, and even some women, turn into, I wasn’t going to let that happen with my offspring. The chances were greater that it would with a male, it was unacceptable.

"If the curse returns, I would do the exact same thing all over again."

But her comments have triggered a backlash online and speculation as to whether her comments are genuine.

I'm pro-choice & pro-Feminist, but this story about a woman aborting her baby just because he was a boy is horrendous http://t.co/viO1xRzuWO— Angela Carless (@AngelaCarless) February 10, 2015

The fact that a feminist woman aborted her baby boy just because he was a boy is just stupid. Feminism is s good cause, but that is insane— Jacob Fitzgerald (@Igr8kcker) February 11, 2015

Sex selection abortion is expected to be made officially illegal in the UK under an amendment to the Serious Crime Bill, which has the backing of 70 MPs.

The bill has completed its committee stage in the Commons and is intended to clarify the law on sex selective abortion.

It also contains new measures to combat domestic violence and female genital mutilation (FGM).

An alliance of faith and women's groups representing Muslims, Sikhs and Hindus has backed the amendment and said "not enough is being done" to stop the practice, the Daily Telegraph reported today.