The leader of Islamist group Boko Haram has dismissed claims by the Nigerian government that it has signed a truce or agreed to release captives including the schoolgirls kidnapped in April.

A video handed to Nigerian media Friday showed Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau laughing away government reports that he had died or that his group had begun peace talks or signed a truce or had agreed to release the roughly 200 schoolgirls kidnapped in April.

In the video, Mr. Shekau bristled with theatrical rage, speaking in front of several vans with heavy machine guns strapped to them.

Last month, Nigeria’s government had claimed that the group, which controls much of northeastern Nigeria, had agreed to a truce while it took part in peace talks. “We will not negotiate with anyone,” Mr. Shekau said.

Nigeria’s government spokesman had said the group had agreed to release every captive it has taken, including the 219 teenage girls kidnapped from a boarding school this year.

“A lie,” Mr. Shekau said. The girls, he added, had all been married off and converted to Islam. “They have now memorized two chapters of the Quran.”

Some military officials had also suggested Mr. Shekau had died—the third time in four years that Nigeria’s government has made this claim.

Mr. Shekau mentioned holding a German hostage in the 13-minute speech, in which he veered from references to Islamic State, to obscure Nigerian politicians to a threat to “eat the heart of infidels.”

Officials working for President Goodluck Jonathan and Nigeria’s defense ministry didn’t answer calls to their mobile phones.

The sequence of events highlighted a credibility gap between a government that is seeking re-election and a militant group that has delivered on many of its threats.

Nigerian government officials have spent recent weeks touting their cease-fire as a campaign accomplishment: Mr. Jonathan is expected to clinch a second four-year term in February’s nationwide vote, but he is under pressure to show that the government’s five-year war against its local Islamist insurgency is bearing fruit.

Boko Haram has spent the past few weeks seizing a series of small impoverished towns in northeastern Nigeria.

On Wednesday, the group took control of Mubi, a town of 200,000 people, sparking an exodus that included Buba Markus, a local official. “I saw over 25 dead bodies scattered along the roadside,” he said.