Islamic State brutes fed a distraught woman searching for her kidnapped son some meat and rice – and then told her she had just eaten her son, according to a British man who joined the fight against ISIS.

Yasir Abdulla, 36, of Yorkshire left his wife and four kids to battle the maniacal extremists in his Kurdish homeland, The Sun reported.

“I hate IS because of what happened to an old Kurdish woman from a nearby tribe,” he said. “Her son was captured by IS fighters and taken as a prisoner to Mosul. She was determined to find her son and went to IS headquarters and asked to see him.”

He said the thugs told her to rest after her long journey and offered her the food before taking her to her son.

“They brought her cups of tea and fed her a meal of cooked meat, rice and soup. She thought they were kind,” he said.“But they had killed him and chopped him up and after she finished the meal and asked to see her son they laughed and said, ‘You’ve just eaten him,’” Abdulla told The Sun.

Abdulla decided to take on the murderous group after they came within six miles of his home in Kurdistan.

He said he bought combat fatigues online and an assault rifle in his Kurdish hometown – then joined other volunteers on the front lines.

“We want to attack IS and drive them out forever but we can’t unless the Peshmerga and the Americans say we can,” he said, referring to the military forces of Iraqi Kurdistan.

Abdulla described the jihadists’ terror tactics, including slaughtering prisoners in bonfires.

“They dig a trench, put dry tree branches and leaves in there, set it alight and then throw prisoners on so they burn alive,” he said. “IS are very good at making people scared. If they make one person scared then that person will make another person scared and soon everyone is scared of IS.”

“But the Kurds are not scared of them. Someone has to stand and fight. We have got thousands of people in many villages and towns behind us. If we fall then all of those places fall, and that can’t happen.”

Yasir, who returned to the UK last week, remains confident and vows to return to Iraq to help the rebels defeat the fanatics.