Update at 2:49 p.m.: According to the license plates on the vehicle cordoned off in the CareNow parking lot, the vehicle is registered to a Dallas County Sheriff’s Deputy — a deputy who went into Thomas Eric Duncan’s apartment last week, according to a story that appeared on WFAA’s website earlier this week.

Update at 2:30 p.m. from Eva-Marie Ayala: The CareNow is on the Denton County side of Frisco. As the clinic serves those in both both Denton and Collin counties, officials from both will monitoring the situation.

Collin County Judge Ketih Self said he was informed of the situation and understands about 13 people were at the clinic when the patient was there. He said he is uncertain where the patient lived or any other details.

“We don’t know what the situation is just yet,” Self said, noting that law enforcement was at the clinic to help assist.

Update at 2:11 p.m.: The patient, dressed in shorts and wearing a surgical mask and a plastic head covering, just walked out of the facility and into the ambulance, which had been covered in plastic. That patient will likely transported to Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas, where Thomas Eric Duncan was hospitalized.

We are working to determine if this person is among the 48 people the Centers for Disease Control is monitoring. So far there has been no comment from the CDC, which already had a 3 p.m. press conference scheduled.

There are also conflicting reports concerning the patient. Frisco officials earlier said he claimed to have had contact with Thomas Eric Duncan, but Care Now says he told them he’d been to Africa.

Update at 2 p.m.: Frisco paramedics, dressed in protective gear, are preparing to transport the patient to a hospital. It’s unclear which one.

Original post at 1:49 p.m.: This just in from Dana Baird, Frisco’s director of communications and media relations:

At 12:32 p.m. today, October 8, Frisco dispatch received a call from Care Now, 301 Main Street, regarding a patient exhibiting signs and symptoms of Ebola. The patient claims to have had contact with the Dallas ‘patient zero’. Frisco firefighter-paramedics are in the process of transporting the patient. They are also in the process of examining clinical staff and other facility patrons. That number other people impacted is unknown. No other information is confirmed, available at this time.

A news conference is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. TODAY.

We appreciate your patience.

It should be noted: This is not a confirmed case of Ebola. It is not known if this person did indeed have contact with Duncan, who died this morning at Presbyterian Hospital. And health officials have yet to say anything concerning the Frisco call.

Updates, of course, are they are made available.

We will carry the press conference at 3:30 p.m.