A woman who claims to be Michael Phelp’s girlfriend has revealed she was born with male genitalia – and says she never told the swimmer.

Taylor Lianne Chandler, who also described her ‘amazing intimacy’ with the athlete, admitted on Facebook that her birth name was David Roy Fitch.

Olympic medallist Michael Phelps is currently in rehab at the moment due to a six-month ban from swimming due to driving under the influence.

The 41-year-old, who is technically ‘intersex’, was born with both male genitalia and a uterus but had neither ovaries nor testicles.

She was technically listed as a boy on her birth certificate at first but was eventually ‘medically diagnosed’ as intersex rather than being male or female in her early teens.

She underwent corrective surgery in her early twenties to remove her penis as well as taking testosterone blockers and changing her name.

However, she reveals that she never told the 29-year-old athlete as it ‘never came up’. She suspects he may now leave her after her public admission.

She wrote in the Facebook post: ‘I was never a man, never lived as a man. No one can say they knew me as a man or produce a photo of me as a man.’

AD_152311321.jpg
(Picture: Facebook)
Chandler has uploaded dozens of photographs of the swimmer on her social media pages – as well as links to any story mentioning their relationship.

However, she has posted no pictures showing them together.

She added:’There are people that remember me as an androgynous child at times because of what was forced upon me.’

She also described her love affair with the swimmer – saying the pair met through dating app Tinder.

AD_152311327.jpg
This image was uploaded to Taylor’s Instagram with her saying she was excited to see him again (Picture: Instagram)
 (Picture: Facebook)
(Picture: Facebook)
‘Spending time with him was like a teenage love affair,’ she said.

‘I have never felt so comfortable and accepted in every way as I did with him.’

Phelps has yet to comment on the claims.