Islamic State fighters fed the mum cooked meat and rice before telling her it was the remains of her kidnapped son, a British dad who went to fight IS has revealed

Sick ISIS militants fed a desperate mum the mutilated remains of her son - after telling her it was cooked meat and rice, it was claimed today.

The son had been captured and taken prisoner by Islamic State militants in Mosul, Iraq.

The worried mum then bravely visited the terror group's headquarters in a bid to speak to her loved one.

ISIS fighters told the mum she should eat before seeing her son because she had travelled a long way.

However, after giving the mother cooked meat, rice and soup, she was horrified to be told she had just eaten her son.

British dad Yasir Abdulla, who left his home in Keighley, West Yorkshire to fight against ISIS, said he joined the battle against the terror group after being told this story.

Ben Lack   Inspired: Yasir Abdulla went to fight ISIS after hearing this story

He said: "The ISIS men told her to sit down because she had travelled a long way and said she should have some food before they took her to meet her son.

"But they had killed him and chopped him up and after she finished the meal and asked to see her son they laughed and said, 'You've just eaten him'."

And after witnessing the horrors of the terror group up close, Yasir says they have 'hijacked Islam'.

"ISIS are wrong. They behead, burn and get those they are against do dig their own graves before they execute them," he said.

"Nobody wants to get captured by ISIS, that would be the worst thing. If I was defending I would fight to my last bullet and use that on myself."

Yasir is aware of Brits joining ISIS but has not encountered any in battle. "I have seen what Jihad John has done and I think that person needs to be captured and executed," he said.

VIEW GALLERY

"England is a lovely place, the people are lovely and the Government is good. Whatever the British joining ISIS say is wrong about Britain, they just hate.

"They are not Muslims, they have hijacked Islam. Muslim people should not cut the head off an animal in front of another animal, but these ISIS behead people every day in front of other people."

The incident is the latest atrocity from the terror group.

It emerged this weekend that Islamic State militants blindfolded a 'gay' man, threw him from a roof then stoned his corpse in Syria.

Horrific images revealed by ISIS show the barbaric killing in front of a baying crowd carried out at a building in Raqqa.

It is believed the man was sentenced to death by a sharia court.

The man was described as being a 'child of Lot' and accused of committing acts of sodomy, according to the Daily Mail.

'Lot' is a reference to a prophet of God whose story in the Qu'ran is used to demonstrate Islam's supposed disapproval of rape and homosexuality.

#ISIS stoned a man to death in Tal Abiad in #Raqqa for being homosexual after throwing him from the roof of the Islamic Court building.— الرقة تذبح بصمت (@Raqqa_Sl) February 27, 2015

The images appear to show the man was blindfolded and had his feet tied before being hurled onto rubble from a tall building.

Crowds then gather round and pelt the corpse with rocks.

It was the fourth time in a few weeks that the jihadist group has used the brutal execution method for alleged homosexuality .

After claiming they found videos on his mobile phone showing him 'practising indecent acts with males,' a 20-year old man was stoned to death in the Syrian province of Deir Ezzor in late November, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

Video loading