Editors' note: There are images in this post that some readers may find distressing.

Islamic State militants on Tuesday released a video that purported to show the beheading of James Foley, an American freelance journalist who has been missing since he was kidnapped in Syria in November 2012.

The authenticity of the video could not be immediately verified.

When contacted by Mashable, NSC spokesperson Caitlin Hayden said, “We have seen a video that purports to be the murder of U.S. citizen James Foley by ISIL. The intelligence community is working as quickly as possible to determine its authenticity. If genuine, we are appalled by the brutal murder of an innocent American journalist and we express our deepest condolences to his family and friends. We will provide more information when it is available.”

James Foley in Aleppo, Syria, in November 2012.

Image: Nicole Tung

The video opens with a clip of President Barack Obama's remarks announcing the launch of airstrikes on Islamic State positions near Erbil in northern Iraq. A black screen then shows the text, "A message to America," and then Foley appears kneeling in a desert landscape, wearing an orange jumpsuit with a microphone attached. A hooded man wearing all-black clothes and tan military boots is standing behind him with a gun in a leather holster.

"I call on my friends, family and loved ones to rise up against my real killers, the U.S. government, for what will happen to me is only a result of their complacent criminality," Foley says, among other things, in remarks seemingly prepared for him by his captors.

The video then switches to the man in black, who is now holding a serrated knife.

"This is James Wright Foley — an American citizen of your country," the man says in British-accented English. "As a government, you have been at the forefront of the aggression towards Islamic State.... Effectively, any aggression towards the Islamic State is an aggression towards Muslims from all walks of life who have accepted the Islamic Caliphate as their leadership. So any attempt by you, Obama, to deny the safety of Muslims living under the safety of the Islamic Caliphate will result in the bloodshed of your people."

The man then beheads Foley, using the knife as the video fades to black. After a shot of Foley's lifeless body and decapitated head, the video switches to the executioner now standing behind another man in an orange jumpsuit, identified in text on the screen as Steven Joel Sotloff.

"The life of this American prisoner, Obama, depends on your next decision."

Sotloff, an American freelance journalist who had been working for Time magazine among other publications, was kidnapped near the Syrian-Turkish border on Aug. 4, 2013.

The video then goes black.

The video was first reported by Zaid Benjamin, a reporter for the Arabic-language Radio Sawa, who said that it came from Furqan Media, the official outlet for the Islamic State. (Twitter suspended — then reinstated — the account.)

The video appeared to surface first on the Twitter account @mujahid4life, belonging to someone who described himself in his Twitter bio as 19 years old, "anti-democracy. Loyal to the Caliphate. Harsh on kuffar. #Revert"

It didn't take long before people who had worked with Foley began reacting on Twitter.

I was w/ James Foley in Aleppo, August 2012 for a day in #Selahaddin. Syrian opposition members were adoring him. He was a kind, brave man

— ilhan tanir (@WashingtonPoint) August 19, 2014

My thoughts are with James Foley’s family. No matter what he faced, he was unfailingly kind, generous, and warm. A wonderful soul.

— Max Fisher (@Max_Fisher) August 19, 2014

There was also anger on Twitter that YouTube didn't immediately take down the video.

It's lucky that video didn't have a unlicensed Katy Perry song as a soundtrack or it would've been deleted from YouTube in seconds.

— Tom Gara (@tomgara) August 19, 2014

However, within an hour of the first report of the beheading, the video was taken down.

Images from the video are below, showing Foley before his execution and Sotloff being threatened:

Shortly after the clip appeared on the web, journalists and observers who watch the region began tweeting a hashtag — #ISISmediaBlackout — pledging to stop sharing Islamic State propaganda.

"You know what I think? And I know how crazy this sounds, but we need an #ISISmediaBlackout. Amputate their reach. Pour water on their flame," said a Tumblr blogger known as LibyaLiberty on Twitter in what appeared to be the first mention of the hashtag. "From here on out, I won't share any photo or video of violence intentionally recorded & released by ISIS for propaganda," she tweeted. Many others, promptly, joined her pledge.

A statement from a group called Free James Foley said: "We know that many of you are looking for confirmation or answers. Please be patient until we all have more information, and keep the Foleys in your thoughts and prayers."

Post by Free James Foley.

Foley's parents appeared on the Today show last year, pleading for his release.

UPDATED 8:28 p.m. ET: GlobalPost CEO Philip Balboni released a statement Tuesday about the video that purportedly shows the beheading of journalist James Foley.

"On behalf of John and Diane Foley, and also GlobalPost, we deeply appreciate all of the messages of sympathy and support that have poured in since the news of Jim’s possible execution first broke. We have been informed that the FBI is in the process of evaluating the video posted by the Islamic State to determine if it is authentic," Balboni said.

“Although GlobalPost’s investigation at one point led us to believe that James was being held by the Syrian government, we later were given strong reason to believe he was being held by Islamic rebels in Syria," he added. "We withheld this information at the request of the family and on the advice of authorities cooperating in the effort to protect Jim. GlobalPost, working with a private security company, has amassed an enormous amount of information that has not been made public.”

Foley reported in Syria for GlobalPost as a freelancer.

Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.