The Department of Homeland Security has received serious and credible information indicating that an extremist splinter group of Al Qaeda, now going by the name Bhakkar Fatwa, is planning multiple attacks against American consumers as they wait in line for stores to open on November 28th: the day known as Black Friday.

Bhakkar Fatwa is a small, relatively unknown group of Islamic militants and fanatics that originated in Bhakkar Pakistan as the central leadership of Al Qaeda disintegrated under the pressures of U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and drone strikes conducted around the world. The group has since branched out and begun aggressively recruiting throughout the Middle East, Africa and Europe. Within the last year the group has come under increased scrutiny by both the CIA and the Department of Homeland Security as they have begun actively recruiting on American soil.

Jeh Johnson, Director of the Department of Homeland Security, has referred to Bhakkar Fatwa as the number one growing problem on the domestic terrorism front in America. Their presence is felt in many mosques and islamic centers across the country: always quietly and out of sight, and previously without any violent operations. Officials at both the CIA and Homeland Security think that may be about to change.

Jack Phillips, agent in charge of monitoring Bhakkar Fatwa’s American operation detailed the agencies recent findings. “Working with both the CIA and the NSA we were able to access conversations and communications between members of Bhakkar Fatwa’s domestic organization and their leadership in Pakistan which indicate that several attacks are planned against American citizens at retail operations on the 28th of November”, said Phillips. “The instructions sent from Pakistan detailed a broad plan of attacks using both firearms and homemade explosives against large crowds gathered outside of stores waiting for the sales that have become the hallmark of the day. The leadership of Bhakkar Fatwa views the American religion as one worshiping money and possessions. They commanded these attacks as being against the ‘holiest temples’ that the Americans serve.”

“We have taken several actions based off of this information”, stated Phillips. “We have detained three individuals who were in active communication with Pakistani leadership regarding these planned terror attacks. All three are undergoing interrogation as we speak so that we may hopefully determine the scope and extent of attacks that have been planned. The names of those detained will not be immediately released. They have been deemed enemy combatants and releasing their identities could impact our operational ability at this point. Everything conceivable is being done to unmask and deal with this new threat.”

“If you are going out shopping early on Friday please keep your eyes open”, Phillips advised. ” At this juncture we are unsure as to how great the threat from these attacks is going to be. We are working as quickly as we can to resolve this situations, but this terrorist group is savvy. They utilize a small closed cell structure, and we may not be able to identify all of them in time. I urge all Americans to strongly consider whether the sales are worth the risk. And if you do go out take particular caution while waiting in line for the store to open. Intelligence points to the time spent waiting outside of the store as the time of greatest vulnerability. I am sure we will resolve this issue, but I still recommend taking adequate precautions.”