The Lebanese army detained a wife and daughter of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi as they crossed from Syria nine days ago, security officials said on Tuesday, in a move seen as likely to put pressure on the Islamist chief.

The woman was identified as Saja al-Dulaimi, an Iraqi, by a Lebanese security official and a senior political source.

The Lebanese newspaper As-Safir reported she had been detained in co-ordination with “foreign intelligence.”

A Lebanese security source said the arrest was “a powerful card to apply pressure” in negotiations to secure the release of 27 members of the Lebanese security forces captured by Islamic militants in August near the Syrian border – a view shared by other Lebanese officials who confirmed the arrest.

A senior Lebanese security official said al-Baghdadi’s wife had been traveling with one of their daughters, contradicting earlier reports that it was his son. DNA tests were conducted to verify it was al-Baghdadi’s child, the official said.

They were detained in northern Lebanon. Investigators were questioning her at the Lebanese defense ministry.

There was no immediate reaction from Islamic State websites, although some of the group’s supporters rejected the report.

Fawaz Gerges, a Middle East expert at the London School of Economics said the arrest indicated that the American-led coalition seems to have solid intelligence in Syria and Iraq.”

“I talked to a few people who told me this was a coordinated arrest between American intelligence services and the Lebanese army,” he told Reuters.

“If I were Abu Bakr Baghdadi, I would be very anxious that they are getting very close,” he said. “This is a development … that is very alarming for ISIS, in particular the top leadership.”

Dulaimi was one of 150 women released from a Syrian government jail in March as part of a prisoner swap that led to the release of 13 nuns taken captive by al-Qaeda-linked militants in Syria, according to media reports at the time.

A source with contacts with Iraqi intelligence said the captured woman was an Iraqi wife of al-Baghdadi’s, but could not confirm the name. There was cooperation between Iraqi and Lebanese authorities leading up to her capture, the source said.

Al-Baghdadi has three wives, two Iraqis and one Syrian, according to tribal sources in Iraq.

Islamic State has declared a caliphate and seized wide areas of Iraq and Syria, Lebanon’s neighbor to the east.

The Lebanese security forces have cracked down on the group’s sympathizers and the intelligence services have been extra vigilant on the borders with Syria. They have arrested over the past few months dozens of Islamic militants suspected of staging attacks to expand Islamic State influence in Lebanon.

A U.S.-led alliance is seeking to roll back Islamic State’s territorial gains in Iraq and Syria. U.S. President Barack Obama has vowed to “degrade and ultimately destroy” al-Baghdadi’s group, which is seeking to reshape the Middle East according to its radical vision of Islam.

An Islamic State fighter denied that al-Baghdadi’s wife had been arrested. “I have checked with our leaders and they said it was false news. The Lebanese are lying,” he said from inside Syria.

Spillover from the Syrian conflict has repeatedly jolted neighboring Lebanon. Militants affiliated to the al-Qaeda-linked Nusra Front and Islamic State are demanding the release of Islamists held by the Lebanese authorities in exchange for the captured members of the Lebanese security forces.

The United States is offering $10-million for information leading to the location, arrest, or conviction of al-Baghdadi, an Iraqi, whose real name is Ibrahim Awwad Ibrahim Ali al-Badri al-Samarai.

Al-Baghdadi called for attacks against the rulers of Saudi Arabia in a speech purported to be in his name last month.

He said his self-declared caliphate was expanding in Saudi Arabia and four other Arab countries and called for “volcanoes of jihad” the world over in the speech released on Nov. 13.

A CV of al-Baghdadi published on social media in July by Islamic State sympathizers described him as married but gave no further details.

Born in 1971, al-Baghdadi comes from an Iraqi family of preachers and Arabic teachers, according to a biography distributed on Islamist forums that says he studied at the Islamic University in Baghdad.

According to U.S. media reports, al-Baghdadi was detained for several years at Camp Bucca, a U.S.-run prison in southern Iraq, before becoming head of the Islamic State of Iraq in 2010, a predecessor to Islamic State, which expanded into Syria in 2013.

In June this year, his group named him “caliph for the Muslims everywhere,” and called on all Muslims to pledge allegiance. Although he is rarely pictured, a video released in July showed him preaching in a mosque in the Iraqi city of Mosul.

The Lebanese authorities have also detained the wife of Anas Shirkas, senior Nusra Front leader from Syria, security officials said on Tuesday. They did not identify her.