An asteroid about 60 feet in diameter missed hitting Earth Sunday by about 25,000 miles, as predicted by NASA’s Near-Earth Object program.

It did not, contrary to some reports Monday, break off a little piece that landed with a bang in Nicaragua.

That story was intriguing to asteroid watchers, including the scientists at the Tucson-based OSIRIS-REx project, which tweeted Monday:

#Nicaragua impactor: the second serious impact in as many years that was undetected #chelyabinsk

NASA officials, though, are skeptical that the reported explosion and crater near Managua’s airport was caused by a space object.

On Tuesday, the OSIRIS-REx twitter feed was reporting that skepticism.

It pointed to an article by Bill Cooke, lead for NASA’s Meteoroid Environment Office, who wrote on NASA’s “Watch the Skies” blog that someone would have surely seen the meteor streaking toward Managua, which has a population of more than 2 million.

“... the lack of fireball reports from the surrounding populated area seems to suggest some other cause. The skies were partially clear, and an object capable of producing a crater this large would have also generated a very bright fireball (brighter than the Full Moon) that should have been seen over a wide area.”

Steve Larson, of Tucson-based Catalina Sky Survey, said the Managua explosion was also out of sync with the passage of asteroid 2014 RC, which was first spotted and observed by the sky survey’s telescopes on Mount Lemmon on Sept. 1.

The asteroid made its closest approach on Sunday at 11:30 a.m. Tucson time. The Managua impact was reported 13 hours before then, Larson said.

It would have been a good story — if true.

Rich Kowalski, the Catalina Sky Survey astronomer who found 2014RC, had previously spotted two other small objects that later struck Earth, in 2008 and again last January.

No one else has done that and this would have been his third one. 

At OSIRIS-REx, where scientists are planning a NASA mission to capture and return pieces of an asteroid they have named Bennu, asteroids that could turn into meteorites are big news.

In addition to bringing back pristine space rocks, the mission also promises to increase scientific knowledge of asteroids and the impacts of various forces on their trajectory — good things to know should we ever need to defend ourselves from a predicted approach.

Dante Lauretta, principal investigator for OSIRIS-REx, said the first tweet about the Managua impact was a little embarrassing, but was quickly countered by skeptical ones.

He said the mission wants to be immediate and newsy with its social media, but also needs to apply "some scientific rigor."