Video clips circulated online Tuesday that purported to show that Saudi state television blurred out First Lady Michelle Obama at a meeting between President Barack Obama and the new Saudi king.

However, observers of the live broadcast — including a Wall Street Journal reporter in the country — said that there was no blurring of Mrs. Obama, and that the broadcast showed her shaking hands with King Salman.


A Youtube video purporting to show that Saudi television blurred the image of Michelle Obama. Youtube
The Saudi embassy in Washington didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. In a statement provided to Bloomberg View, the embassy’s information director said: “Saudi TV has been showing the total arrival ceremony at the airport and at the Palace and nowhere is anything blurred.” Various clips posted of the ceremony elsewhere show no blurring of Mrs. Obama or of her handshake with the new king.

The Obamas made a stop in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on Tuesday on their way back from India to pay respects to the late King Abdullah and to meet with the new leader of a longtime American ally. The visit came amid continued criticism of Saudi Arabia’s policies regarding women’s rights, which served to put the interactions between the first lady and Saudi officials under a spotlight.

Mrs. Obama dressed conservatively, with long pants and long sleeves. The first lady didn’t wear a headscarf in the conservative Muslim country — a standard part of Saudi Arabia’s state-mandated dress code. But covering the head isn’t required for foreigners, though only 3% of Saudis believe that a women without a headscarf is appropriately dressed in public, according to a 2014 study by the University of Michigan’s Institute for Social Research.

Her appearance drew notice on Twitter. Social media users tweeted using an Arabic hashtag that translates to #MichelleObama_NotVeiled.


 


 

Others wondered why she had covered her head on a previous trip, to Indonesia. The photos used were from a 2010 visit to the Istiqlal Mosque in Jakarta.

 


Ahmed Al Omran contributed to this post.