Sen. Lindsey Graham says the Taliban detainees released from Guantanamo Bay in exchange for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl have been in touch with members of the al-Qaida-linked Haqqani network, yet all five still are being monitored in Qatar.

Graham, a South Carolina Republican who recently visited Qatar, said he was concerned one of the detainees had left, but was assured during his visit that all five senior Taliban officials remain in the tiny nation on the Arabian Peninsula.

Qatar gained public praise from President Barack Obama for brokering the controversial deal that freed Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl from Taliban captivity in May 2014 in exchange for the release of the five Taliban detainees.

Scroll down for video

Suspicious: South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said Thursday that Taliban detainees released from Guantanamo Bay in exchange for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl have been in touch with members of the al-Qaida-linked Haqqani network

The Pentagon says it is confident in Qatar's ability to mitigate any threat posed by the former detainees.

When contacted for comment by CNN, the White House referred questions to the Pentagon which, int turn, declined to comment on the case--including on which of the five men is in touch with Haqqani.

However, U.S. intelligence set up to intercept all five men's communications in Qatar has revealed that one of them 'reached out' in recent months to try to encourage militant activity.

'It's just a year deal,' Graham told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 'Just as sure as we're sitting here, they're going back to the fight.'

'I was afraid one had left, but they told me they're all still there': Senator Graham was assured that all five men remain in Qatar

Qatar gained public praise from President Barack Obama for brokering the controversial deal that freed Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl from Taliban captivity in May 2014 in exchange for the release of the five Taliban detainees from Guantanamo

'They've had some Haqqani people come to meet with them. ... They're reaching out. The Taliban five are communicating with people inside Afghanistan.'

However, Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a leading Capitol Hill voice on foreign policy, said all five are still in Qatar.

'I was afraid one had left, but they told me they're all still there,' he said.

The Pentagon said in a statement that it would not comment on specific cases involving the detainees.

Mohammed Nabi

Abdul Haq Wasiq: Served as the Taliban deputy minister of intelligence

Mullah Norullah Nori: A senior Taliban commander in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif when the Taliban fought U.S. forces in late 2001.

Khairullah Khairkhwa: Served in various Taliban positions including interior minister and had direct ties to Mullah Omar and Osama bin Laden.

Mohammed Nabi: Served as chief of security for the Taliban in Qalat, Afghanistan, and later worked as a radio operator for the Taliban's communications office in Kabul.

Mohammad Fazl: Human Rights Watch says could be prosecuted for war crimes for presiding over the mass killing of Shiite Muslims in Afghanistan in 2000 and 2001 as the Taliban sought to consolidate their control over the country.

Mohammad Fazzi (left) and Mullah Norullah Nori (right)

Khairullah Khairkhwa (left) and Abdul Haq Wasiq (right)

'However, we take any incidence of re-engagement very seriously, and we work in close coordination through military, intelligence, law enforcement and diplomatic channels to mitigate re-engagement and to take follow-on action when necessary,' the statement said. 'The Defense Department has a close security partnership with the government of Qatar. We're confident in our ability to continue to mitigate any threat that may be posed by the former Guantanamo detainees.'

Haqqani operates in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region and has been one of the deadliest threats to U.S. troops in the war. The network, which the State Department designated as a foreign terrorist organization in 2012, claims allegiance to the Afghan Taliban, yet operates with some degree of autonomy.

The U.S. has recently quickened the pace of the release of Guantanamo detainees as the Obama administration hopes to shut down the facility once and for all--a prerequisite for normalized Cuba-U.S. relations, the Cuban president Raul Castro said Wednesday

Worth it? The men were swapped in exchange for U.S. prisoner Bowe Bergdahl in May