The baby in the popular children's TV show Teletubbies has finally revaled herself as a university student.

Jess Smith, 19, was just nine months old when she became one of the most familiar faces on British television in March 1997.

As the BBC prepares to make 60 new episodes of the Teletubbies, the laughing tot in the sun, who featured in all 365 episodes, has now revealed herself.

Jess was selected to overlook Teletubbyland as Tinky-Winky, Dipsy, Laa Laa and Po had fun below.

Her decision to come out and 'say hello' came after her first week at Canterbury Christ Church university, when students were told to say something about themselves that no one else would guess.

After holding back due to shyness, she eventually said: "I thought I may as well tell them as I'm going to be spending the next three years with them."

Jess, a first-year dance education student, then broke the news on Facebook.

She posted: "So I've recently celebrated my 19th birthday and after a lot of thought, I've decided it's time to tell everyone.

"I used to hide it but after a lot of encouragement from my friends at university, I've gained the confidence to come out with it.

"I am the sun from Teletubbies. There has been quite a few people pretending to be 'the sun' but only I could tell you the real story."

The 19-year-old broke the news on Facebook (SWNS.com)

In 1996, her mother, Anji Smith, 44, took her to Edenbridge Hospital to be weighed and a health visitor, who had been asked by Ragdoll Productions to find smiley babies, put Jess's name forward.

Mrs Smith said it was never intended to be a big thing: "It was just something a bit different to do and we didn't expect it to be as big as it was.

"They just sat her in front of a camera and she just laughed and smiled at her dad.

"We didn't hear anything until we got a letter when she was 18 months old saying she'd been picked.

"It was really weird seeing her on television."

Jess was put in a high chair for the filming so she would be looking down like the sun.

Her furniture deliverer father Bill, 49, made her giggle by playing with a teddy bear behind the camera.

And as no one could predict the success of the show, Jess was paid just £250 for filming and given a box of toys to take home.