An American blogger has said she aborted her baby when she found out it was a boy because she “hates the patriarchy.”

The woman, who is known only as Lana, describes herself as a feminist who has fought for women’s rights “to the point of eschewing a career”.

She wrote that when she found out she was pregnant in 2012 she was overjoyed until she realised it was a boy.

“I was in shock, I started crying, weeping at the thought of what I was about to curse the world with.

“Crying, sobbing, uncontrollable weeping, mental anguish the likes of which may only be experienced by those who have had their lives destroyed by war, I was a refugee, and my home was my refugee camp, an unfamiliar place that was just… sheltering me.”

After three days of mourning about the idea of bringing a “monster” into the world, she decided to go to an abortion clinic and have the foetus removed.

She said: “I don’t hate men, I hate the patriarchy, what men, and even some women, turn into, I wasn’t going to let that happen with my offspring. The chances were greater that it would with a male, it was unacceptable.

“If the curse returns, I would do the exact same thing all over again.”

She wrote that during her experiences of fighting for women’s rights, she found that “men generally would look down on us, refuse to help us, or hardly even lend an ear so that we could air our grievances”.

“This didn’t surprise me, the patriarchy has been well entrenched since the dawn of time, but here I was, here I am, ready to change it,” she wrote.

Lana’s blog post has since received much criticism, with people calling her a “mentally ill female”, and writing messages such as: “Her mother already brought a monster into the word by giving birth to HER!”

On her blog Lana wrote that she had lost many friends and family members over the last three years, and responded to the criticism she had received.

“I cannot believe some of the emails that have been forwarded to me, do people really exist who want to see me dead because of what I chose to do with my own body?,” she wrote.

“The thing that I hope everyone takes away from all of this is that I own the reasons why I chose to have an abortion. Most of you reading probably have no idea what it is like to go through the process of debating whether or not to abort a pregnancy, let alone the actual experience of it.

“To me, the experience was liberating, the emotions I felt when deciding what I should do, and after learning my foetus was male was something I wouldn’t wish on my worst enemy. Coming out of it a liberated woman though was more than worth it.”

Abortion based on gender is already illegal here in the UK, but MPs have been fighting to clarify the amendment to the 1967 Abortion Act that states this.

The amendment reads: "Nothing in section 1 of the Abortion Act 1967 can be interpreted as allowing a pregnancy to be terminated on the grounds of the sex of the unborn child."

A Telegraph investigation found that gender-based abortion does still take place in the UK, with some cultures favouring boys over girls.