A shooting at Canada’s Parliament Hill took place on Wednesday morning, with one suspect shot dead.

Two sources told the Canadian Press that Sergeant-At-Arms Kevin Vickers shot the first suspect.

“I am safe & profoundly grateful to Sgt at Arms Kevin Vickers & our security forces for selfless act of keeping us safe,” said Julian Fantino, Canada’s Minister of Veterans Affairs and a member of Parliament, via Twitter.

“To all in Ottawa, stay safe & strong. Thank God for Sgt at Arms Kevin Vickers & our Cdn security forces. True heroes…” added Minister Peter MacKay.

“Some people question why there is a sergeant at arms #cdnpoli #ableg #yql #Lethbridge …this is why!” added YQL on the Fringe Podcast, with a link to this story.

Vickers is being described by many as a hero.

“It’s not too early to say it, Sergeant-At-Arms Mr. Kevin Vickers is a Canadian hero,” said university student Dave Beninger.

Chief Super Kevin M. Vickers, Cdn Parliament Sgt-at- Arms; taking out the trash for 9 straight years #cdnpoli #Ottawa pic.twitter.com/29u8Kl5Kyz

— Jimmydubyyc (@jimmydubyyc) October 22, 2014

Kevin Vickers Sgt at Arms takes out gunman in Parliament Hill. pic.twitter.com/lrwZAxaOb8

— Kelly Stumpf (@Stumpf_K) October 22, 2014

Vickers was a 29-year veteran of the RCMP before joining the House of Commons as Director of Security Operations in June 2005. He assumed the position of Sergeant-at-Arms on Sept. 1, 2006.

The Sergeant-at-Arms is a position steeped in parliamentary tradition, noted Metro News.

The Sergeant-at-Arms, one of four positions reporting to the Clerk of the House of Commons, is responsible for safeguarding the authority of the House of Commons, the safety and security of the Parliament buildings and their occupants, ensuring and controlling access to the House of Commons, the preservation of order and the management of all Parliamentary buildings, assets and related services.

According to the Globe and Mail, Vickers, who grew up in Miramichi, N.B., is tehe tall man in black carrying mace into the House.

He sits quietly in his seat in the chamber when the Commons is in session.

Story developing …

LIVE UPDATES HERE — >> Parliament Hill Shooting: Gunman on the Loose After Shooting Soldier in Centre Block in Canada (+Photos, Video)