A woman dumped by her boyfriend spent an entire week sitting in a KFC eating chicken wings.

Depressed Tan Shen, 26, from Chengdu, in China’s southwest Sichuan Province, decided she needed some finger licking good comfort food to get over her ex and turned to what she enjoyed most - Kentucky Fried Chicken.

She said: "I was walking around feeling miserable and decided to stop off at the KFC at the train station.

"I hadn’t planned on staying there long, I just wanted some chicken wings. But once I got in there and started eating I decided I needed time to think.

"I didn’t want to go back to my apartment because it was full of memories of him. So I stayed."

After a few days employees at the chicken shop began to get concerned.

Worker Jiang Li Lung, 22, said: "We work in shifts here and the restaurant is open 24 hours a day, so we get a lot of people coming through. At first no one really noticed her.

"But after a few days I began thinking she looked really familiar. Then I realised we had been serving her for the past three days and that she hadn’t actually left.

"When we asked her if she was ok, she said she was and just needed time to think. And then asked for another box of chicken wings with extra large fries."

He said the woman wasn’t doing anyone any harm so they let her stay.

He added: "She was after all a paying customer, even if a bit of an odd one."

Story continues below the slideshow:

After a week Shen decided she’d had enough when local media turned up and decided to write about her.

"I decided the best thing to do would be to leave the city and go back to my parents. I had already told work I was off sick, so phoned them and said I was leaving.

"And I was getting sick of the taste of chicken so there was no point in staying there anymore."

She then boarded the next train to her parents' home in Quingdao city in east China’s Shandong Province and left.

Waitress Jiang Li Lung said: "I guess we kind of miss her. It certainly made work more interesting."

SEE ALSO:

Sex Or Food? This Is How Most Men Would Answer...

Mental Health and Dating: Love or Heartache?