THE ISLAMIC State murderer dubbed 'Jihadi John' has been named as Mohammed Emwazi from west London, according to reports.

It is understood that he was known to British security services who chose not to disclose his name earlier for operational reasons.

A close friend of Emwazi told the Washington Post: “I have no doubt that Mohammed is Jihadi John.

"He was like a brother to me. . . . I am sure it is him."

Downing Street declined to confirm or deny that the reported name was known to the intelligence and security services.

Asked if David Cameron was concerned about Emwazi's name being reported, a No 10 spokeswoman said: "The Prime Minister would be concerned about information being put into the public domain at any time that might jeopardise ongoing police or security investigations or the safety of British citizens.

"There is an ongoing investigation. It is absolutely right that we allow the police and security agencies to do all they can to bring those responsible to justice and to help keep British people safe."

Kuwaiti-born Emwazi is believed to have been raised in a middle-class area of west London, at times attending a mosque in Greenwich.

He is understood to have graduated with a degree in computer science from the University of Westminster, after which he started to become radicalised.

The Post claims Emwazi started to radicalise after a planned safari in Tanzania following his graduation from the University of Westminster was brought to an abrupt end when he was detained on arrival in Dar es Salaam and deported the following day.

It is claimed that Emwazi told friends he was flown to Amsterdam where an officer from MI5 accused him of trying to reach Somalia, where the militant group al-Shabab operates.

He is thought to have travelled to Syria in 2012, before joining IS (also known as Isis or Isil), according to the Post.

According to the BBC's Dominic Casciani, Emwazi was a "person of interest" to British security services from at least 2011.

He apparently featured in "semi-secret court cases relating to extremism overseas and back in the UK".

He is thought to have been responsible for the brutal executions of US journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, American aid worker Peter Kassig, British aid workers Alan Henning and David Haines and Japanese hostages Kenji Goto and Haruna Yukawa.

Each killing was publicised in a series of highly-produced video clips.

The masked executioner appeared to speak with a British accent, prompting speculation about his identity.

The killer gained his moniker after being nicknamed 'John' by a group of his hostages.

He was apparently part of a terrorist cell described as 'the Beatles', with other members known as 'George', 'Paul' and 'Ringo'.

Commander Richard Walton of the Met’s Counter Terrorism Command (SO15) said:

"We have previously asked media outlets not to speculate about the details of our investigation on the basis that life is at risk.

"We are not going to confirm the identity of anyone at this stage or give an update on the progress of this live counter-terrorism investigation."

A spokeswoman for the British Embassy in Washington said: "(The) Prime Minister has been clear that we want all those who have committed murder on behalf of ISIL (Islamic State) to face justice for the appalling acts carried out.

"There is an ongoing police investigation into the murder of hostages by ISIL in Syria.

"It is not appropriate for the Government to comment on any part of it while this continues.”