The wife and child of the Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the Islamic State (Isil), have been arrested in Lebanon, security officials and Lebanese politicians said on Tuesday.

An Iraqi women, identified by local security sources as Saja Hamid al-Dulaimi was detained ten days ago at a checkpoint, along with Baghdadi’s son, north of the Lebanese town of Tripoli, a senior security confirmed to the Telegraph.

“She had crossed into Lebanon from Syria. She and her son were travelling on fake passports,” the source said.

The boy is said to be no older than 11 years of age.

Citing security officials, the Lebanese As-Safir newspaper said the child’s DNA had been tested and showed the leader of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant jihadist group is his father.

Baghdadi’s DNA is likely to have been taken by US officials in the American run Camp Bucca prison in Iraq, where he was detained in 2004.

The newspaper said the arrests had been made after a tip off from a “foreign” intelligence agency, that is believed to belong to a Western government.

The wife and child are said to be currently being held in the Ministry of National Defence headquarters in Yarze, just outside Beirut.

Mrs Dulaimi was one of 138 women released from a Syrian government jail in March as part of a prisoner swap that led to the release of 13 Syrian nuns being held by Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaeda’s branch in Syria.

Though Iraqi, Mrs Dulaimi had reportedly detained along with three of her children during a military operation near the Syria capital Damascus.

Earlier this year a photograph was circulated online purporting to be of Mrs Dulaimi. It showed a young woman with a pale face, clearly defined cheek bones and large eyes. Her hair is covered in a black hijab.

The release of Mrs Dulaimi was repeatedly demanded by the al-Qaeda kidnappers of the nuns, who were captured from a convent in the Syrian Christian town of Maaloula.

One source close to the negotiations told the Telegraph that they had “insisted” that without her release negotiations “would not continue”.

Mrs Dulaimi’s second detention is likely to be a significant personal blow to Baghdadi and could be used as a bargaining chip against his group, which has captured many foreign, Iraqi and Syrian prisoners and declared a caliphate in territory it has seized in Syria and Iraq.

Baghdadi has three wives, two Iraqis and one Syrian, according to tribal sources in Iraq.

Earlier this year the Telegraph visited the ramshackle neighbourhood of Tobchi in Baghdad, where Baghdadi, whose real name is Ibrahim Awad Ibrahim al-Badri, spent his early years.

A resident who had played football alongside Baghdadi, when they were both part of a team formed by the local mosque, said he had married shortly after completing his doctorate at the Islamic University in Baghdad at the start of the millennium.

The resident, who asked not to be named recalled that his wife had given birth to a son within less than a year of the marriage ceremony. His son is now approximately 11 years old, matching the age of the boy reportedly captured in Lebanon.

There were some contradicting and unconfirmed reports that the child captured may have been a girl.

Syria's civil war has killed more than 200,000 people in less than four years, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said on Thursday.