Anna Wintour, editor-in-chief on Vogue magazine is allegedly displeased with the publications's new 1 World Trade Center offices. Their new workplace at the 25th and 26th floors of the building is said to be infested with rats and vermins. Moving to this new offices may be postponed until the pests are cleared away.

Reportedly, the new 1 WTC offices of Vogue magazine are being swarmed by rodents. Editor-in-child, Anna Wintour, is said to be naturally disgusted and would not step foot into the new offices until these rodents are removed.  The report details that the influential editor-in-chief already asked her staffers to clean her office before she ever set foot in there. Fortunately, Anna Wintour is not yet expected to work in the new offices until 2015. 

A Vogue employee told Gawker last Friday afternoon that the pests cannot be tolerated for work purposes. Moreover, because of the many rodents and vermins scuttling around, the editorial department of the high-caliber magazine might delay its move from the old Times Square offices. The sales and marketing departments have already moved in. The employee added that even though it may sound laughable, but the company is facing a serious concern if these creatures are not removed. The employee explains that there is a possibility that these creatures could nibble the clothing they have in the office.

This rat infestation problem is remarkable considering how excited the company seems to be about moving to their new posh premises. Before this report, Vogue had posted the move in a special online story. The company has also been steadily showing off pictures and videos of the new offices, even Anna Wintour's through Instagram.

Page Six reports that not everyone is sympathetic towards the company.

"Security couldn't even stop BASE jumpers from ­entering the building and leaping from the top. You think they could stop some rats?" a commenter named "4npower" said.

Another commenter, "Lady­Amanita," claimed that the report is nothing short of an exaggeration and that the staff might be confused between mice and rats. "Rats probably wouldn't want to live on the 25th and 26th floors of a high-rise."

To contact the editor, e-mail: editor@ibtimes.com