The Islamic State executioner known as 'Jihadi John' was today revealed to be a university graduate from London who flew to Syria despite being on an MI5 terror watch list.

Mohammed Emwazi, 27, of Queen’s Park, west London, who studied computer programming at the University of Westminster, is said to have travelled to the Middle East in 2012 and later joined ISIS.

Jihadi John has featured in the horrifying execution videos of U.S. journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, aid worker David Haines, 22 Syrian soldiers and Japanese reporter Kenji Goto.

Scroll down for video

Unmasked: The ISIS executioner 'Jihadi John' has been identified as Mohammed Emwazi from west London

Arabic speaker Mr Emwazi, who first moved to Britain aged six, was reported to have been raised in a middle-class family and occasionally prayed at a mosque in Greenwich, south-east London.

But after graduating from university in 2009, he claimed to have been harassed and intimidated by the security services - and even complained to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.

Mr Emwazi alleged an agent from MI5 knew ‘everything about me; where I lived, what I did, and the people I hanged around with’ and claimed the organisation attempted to ‘turn’ him to work for them.

One of Kuwait-born Mr Emwazi’s close friends identified him, telling a newspaper: ‘I have no doubt that Mohammed is Jihadi John. He was like a brother to me… I am sure it is him.’

And Asim Qureshi, research director a British human rights group Cage - who had been in contact with Mr Emwazi before he left for Syria - said he also believed the man was Jihadi John.

Mr Qureshi told the Washington Post: ‘There was an extremely strong resemblance. This is making me feel fairly certain that this is the same person.'

Home: Mr Emwazi’s most recent address was a flat in Leeve House (above), which is part of the Mozart Estate in Queen's Park - an area that has seen shootings and gang-related troubles in the past four years

According to the newspaper, in May 2009 Mr Emwazi flew to Tanzania with friends apparently on a safari - but was arrested by police upon landing in Dar es Salaam and sent back to Britain.

En route he stopped in Amsterdam, where he claimed to have been accused by an MI5 officer of trying to reach Somalia, home of the militant group Al Shabaab.

The Washington Post reported Mr Emwazi - who has also been known as Muhammad ibn Muazzam - then moved to his native Kuwait and worked in IT, but he was detained by counter-terrorism police in June 2010 upon a return trip to London.

They allegedly fingerprinted him and searched his belongings, and he was not allowed to fly back to Kuwait. Mr Emwazi was put on a terror watch list and banned from leaving the UK.

The FBI said last September that authorities had been trying to identify Jihadi John using various investigative techniques including voice analysis and interviews with former hostages.

Scotland Yard would not confirm the name, and Downing Street declined to comment on the report.

Mr Emazi’s most recent address was a flat in Leeve House, part of the Mozart Estate in Queen's Park - an area that has seen shootings and gang-related troubles in the past four years.

A spokesman for the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation at King's College London said: ‘We believe that the identity and name published by the Washington Post and now in the public realm to be accurate and correct.

‘“Jihadi John” is not special, in the sense that all the foreign fighters have tried to hide their identity by using pseudonyms or literally by masking themselves.

‘The fact that “Jihadi John” has been unveiled in this manner demonstrates that whatever efforts are made, the ability to mask one's identity is limited or in fact impossible, and their true identities will eventually be revealed.’

In September, it was revealed Jihadi John was known to MI5 before he travelled to Syria to join ISIS. It was revealed security officials had identified him but his name and background were being kept secret to avoid jeopardising any hostage rescue missions.

Horrifying: Jihadi John has featured in the execution videos of American journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, aid worker David Haines, 22 Syrian soldiers and Japanese journalist Kenji Goto (pictured)

Police and security agents said they also wanted to gather more information before raiding the homes of the fanatic’s family and friends.

Not him: Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary - a London rapper initially identified as a suspect - was ruled out

Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary – a London rapper initially identified as a suspect – was ruled out after analysis of his voice as well as his height and mannerisms.

The 23-year-old came to prominence last year after he posted a photograph of himself on Twitter holding up a severed head.

Other Britons from Portsmouth, Birmingham and Cardiff have been linked to John, who is said to have overseen the torture of hostages and to have led negotiations for French and Italian captives freed in return for ransoms.

It is claimed he was making street collections for genuine Arab charities based in London at the time he came to MI5’s attention.

There is no suggestion that MI5 or the police had any basis to stop him from travelling abroad.

David Cameron has repeatedly called for the infamous terrorist to be punished for his crimes.

In an interview with MailOnline last month, the Prime Minister revealed how he personally watched videos of the brutal beheadings of British hostages carried out by Jihadi John.

'These videos are absolutely horrific and depraved,' the Prime Minister said. 'And obviously I take the time to see what they are doing so I understand what families have been going through.'

Speaking in November, Mr Cameron said: ‘You should be in no doubt that I want Jihadi John to face justice for the appalling acts that have been carried out in Syria.’

Briton named as Jihadi John claimed he was repeatedly approached by MI5 to become an informant and believed he was being harassed by agents

MI5 repeatedly tried to recruit Mohammed Emwazi as an informant and put him on a terror watchlist to stop him leaving Britain but he still managed to flee the country for Syria, it was claimed today.

Mr Emwazi is believed to have become known to the security services in 2009 when he was accused of trying to fight with Somali terror group Al-Shabaab in east Africa.

The British citizen, who was born in Kuwait and moved to the UK aged six, flew to Tanzania with two friends after he graduated from the University of Westminster claiming he was going on safari.

But he was arrested as soon as he touched down in capital Dar es Salaam and deported by Tanzanian's officials.

He flew back to Britain via Amsterdam and told a friend MI5 were waiting for him at Schiphol Airport and tried to recruit him to share information on extremists, Mr Emwazi told a confidant.

Asim Qureshi, research director at the rights group Cage told the Washington Post: 'Mohammed was quite incensed by his treatment, that he had been very unfairly treated'.

Mr Emwazi claimed in emails that he was repeatedly approached by the security services over the course of the following year but he said he refused to co-operate and denied he had any links to terrorism.

Hostages who have survived being held by ISIS in Syria and Iraq have said that Jihadi John is a man 'obsessed' with Somalia and would make them watch Al-Shabaab videos while in captivity.

In June 2010 counter-terrorism officers, linked to the security services and Scotland Yard, allegedly arrested him as he tried to fly to Kuwait. He was fingerprinted and searched, it was said, and put on a terror watchlist preventing him from leaving Britain.

In an email to Mr Qureshi he said: 'I feel like a prisoner, only not in a cage, in London. A person imprisoned & controlled by security service men, stopping me from living my new life in my birthplace & country, Kuwait'.

Another friend said: ‘He was upset and wanted to start a life elsewhere. He at some stage reached the point where he was really just trying to find another way to get out.’

Another friend said that Emwazi later tried to travel to Saudi Arabia to teach English in 2012 but again stopped from leaving.

He was 'desperate' to leave Britain and 'was ready to exhaust every single kind of avenue within the machinery of the state to bring a change for his personal situation', Mr Qureshi said.

Mr Qureshi said he last heard from him that year and said the Jihadi John supect believed 'actions were taken to criminalize him and he had no way to do something against these actions'.

Soon afterwards he vanished and is believed to have travelled to Syria, where he may now be ISIS' figurehead.

The University of Westminster was one of the 21 university institutions which have been found to promote gender segregation.

Research by Student Rights, a group which aims to prevent extremism at universities, said that from September to March 2013, 46 events at 21 separate institutions were found to have been segregated.

At the University of Westminster, at least two events were found to have been advertised as ‘women only’.

The research found that on March 21, 2013 a debate entitled ‘Secularism vs. Islam’ was held by the Women’s Take on Current Affairs Society (WTCA), a Hizb ut-Tahrir front group, and featured Shohana Khan as a speaker.

When challenged by students as to why the WTCA was able to hold events segregated by gender, the Student Union Interfaith Officer allegedly claimed that the society’s events were ‘faith-based’, which exempted it from equal opportunities policy.

In addition to this, an event the following day was held by the Islamic Society called ‘The Concept of Love in Islam’ which was also advertised as ‘Sisters only’. It was logged by Student Rights for this reason.

Student Rights said that when a male student from the society complained about not being able to attend, the Islamic Society highlighted that segregated events were common on campus stating ‘we’ve had many brothers only events too...the information discussed in the only women talks/or notes can be put to the public after the talk...the topics at hand do not only concern women.’

The University of Westminster’s ‘Dignity and Diversity at Work and Study Policy’ states that: ‘The University of Westminster is committed to creating a stimulating, supportive, inclusive and accessible learning and working environment... The University has a legal responsibility to provide a healthy and safe working environment that is free from unlawful discrimination and harassment.’