The man behind the Ottawa shootings is a Canadian convert to Islam whose passport had been seized by authorities, federal sources say.

While police have not confirmed the man's identity, sources have told Canada's Globe And Mail, Reuters and Associated Press that the main suspect was Michael Zehaf-Bibeau.

A Royal Canadian Mounted Police intervention team responds to the shooting at the Parliament building in Ottawa. Photo: AP

Just before 10am on Wednesday local time (1am AEDT Thursday), a gunman shot and killed Corporal Nathan Cirillo and then opened fire on the country's Parliament buildings.

Sergeant-at-Arms Kevin Vickers, a former member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, shot the suspect dead.

The suspected gunman, Zehaf-Bibeau, 23, was reportedly born Michael Joseph Hall but changed his name, sources said.

Police officers take cover near Parliament Hill following the shooting. Photo: Reuters

The Globe and Mail newspaper said he was recently designated a "high-risk traveller" by the Canadian government - meaning it was feared he would travel abroad to commit crimes - and that his passport had been seized.

Zehaf-Bibeau had a history of drug use and had multiple run-ins with Canadian police in the French-speaking province of Quebec.

Authorities have not yet ruled out the possibility that there are other shooters still on the loose.

The gunman, thought to be Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, in a photo released by Canadian media. Photo: Supplied

On Monday, Martin Couture-Rouleau, a 25-year-old who converted to Islam last year, rammed his car into two soldiers in the Quebec town of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and was shot dead by police. One of the soldiers later died.

Rouleau was arrested at the airport in July on his way to Turkey and also had his passport confiscated.

He was among 90 people being tracked by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) on suspicion of taking part in militant activities abroad or planning to do so.

Police would not confirm whether Zehaf-Bibeau was on this list.

No group, Islamic or otherwise, claimed responsibility for either the attack in Ottawa or the one near Montreal on Monday.

Reuters, Fairfax Media