Two friends have a 20-year-old McDonald’s Quarter Pounder that they’ve keep safe for another friend for the past two decades. It was 20 years ago when the friend asked the two to pick up the Quarter Pounder for him while they were at the local McDonald’s, but he never showed up to eat the burger, according to 9 News on Feb. 16.

A 20-year-old burger, a McDonald's Quarter Pounder with Cheese, looks pretty much the same as a new Quarter Pounder looks today!
YouTube screen shot
It became a joke over the next few weeks when the friend still hadn’t claimed the burger, the buddies told him they'd keep it safe for him. Then that ran into months and now decades later, the Quarter Pounder is unwrapped and shared on a local news show. The two Australian buddies, Casey Dean and Eduard Nitz, were only 14 and 13 at the time they purchased the Quarter Pounder with Cheese for their friend.

According to the Sidney Daily Telegraph, Dean states that he is pretty sure that this burger is the oldest burger in the world. While folk’s might store wine to age for 20 years, ground beef is not something you would eat after being left out a few hours, never mind decades.

Dean and Nitz recently appeared on the TV show “The Project” with their antiquated McDonald’s Quarter Pounder and it didn’t look as one might expect a 20-year-old burger to look like. The burger and bread didn’t sport any mold, discoloration or even a bad smell. It looked almost identical to a McDonald's burger just purchased today.

This Quarter Pounder has now taken on a life of its own with a new Facebook page that asks, "Can This Burger Get More Likes Than Kanye West?" It got 3000 likes in just the first day it materialized.

The two Aussie buddies were about to take a bite of the very old burger in the name of charity, but the show’s host prompted them to put it down and skip this decades-old offering. The host protested and shared some common sense with the two friends and they obliged.

If the two buddies had eaten the old burger, chances are they would later break out in a fight as to who would use the bathroom first! They would most likely spend the remainder of the day hanging around the toilet bowl from eating meat that is so old.